and we're live
hello Michael Shermer thank you good to
see with you a pile of your writing look
at you got this what more arc heavens on
earth look at you
stiff dick magazine it's the latest
issue why is there something rather than
nothing we like to tackle the little
questions that's a deep one you've dealt
with this on the show yeah too much it's
uh that's one that just you know when
you're in traffic you know what is this
you have someone like Neil or Sean
Carroll or Lawrence Krauss talking about
this it's like whoa yeah I'm not a
physicist I'm a social scientist so for
me I come at it like what do you mean by
this word nothing because most of us
have this idea what I mean oh no in
physics it means this other thing like
okay yeah well I think our limited
understanding of what they are talking
about when I see those guys writing down
on legal papers with all that scratchy
Scratchy crazy looking for a fake alien
language and mathematics like thank God
you guys are out there why open heavens
on earth with imagine yourself dead and
you know most people go well you know I
see myself in the casket and my friends
and family around and hopefully they're
mourning no you wouldn't see anything of
course you you're dead I mean to imagine
anything you have to be conscious in
alive so you can't even picture being
dead so you can't picture not existing
and it would be the same thing imagine
there's no universe yeah okay I see
blackness no there's no blackness I mean
nothing would literally be not just no
light but no no perception of darkness
nothing not even nothing I was going
through Instagram the other day and
there was this one person who was
talking about the purpose of life and
when you die what's going to happen and
I immediately just started laughing I'm
like you don't know if right how are you
saying this like when you die what
happens it he was like one of them
spiritual type characters is just kind
of a huckster there's a lot of spiritual
hucksters out there these days there are
yes the in the 90s we debunked all those
psychics talking to the dead that was a
that hasn't been too popular in recent
years but that was a big thing people
caught on to that little earpiece yeah
yeah the earpiece or
just the cold reading yeah I see a
father figure is this a grandfather
father uncle friend of the family you
know you can yeah and he's saying
something about you know it's okay for
you to forgive yourself
oh okay like well where was the will
yeah he hid his will somewhere where is
that because that's what we want to know
is you know that ring he had where is if
you're just vague enough I mean like
horoscopes if you're just vague enough
people like oh my god it's right all the
time it's always right like that's not
even a real horoscope if you really want
to pay attention to actual astrology
that you they have to know the date you
were born the time you were born it's
not just the month of August right you
know it's like they got a note in the
morning or evening yeah you know we
think about all that stuff it's all bunk
yeah yeah why has it been around so long
well because the well it's called the
Barnum effect where you know PT Barnum
you just offer something for everybody
so if you make it general enough you
know I I sense you're an intelligent
wise person that people really enjoy
your company and and you like going to
parties and being with other people and
yet you like the quiet solitude of a
walk on the beach and on people going
yep that is so me well I pretty much
describe every scenario you can have
you're alone you're with people but it's
one of those things where if you talk to
someone who is an actual believer in
astrology like they they are so
convinced I got a friend of mine who's
trying to tell me that he makes all of
his decisions based on consulting with
his astrologer mm-hmm well Reagan well
Nancy Reagan yeah for his travel after
he was shot she got real paranoid about
that well so part of the problem is
these astrologers and psychics are
themselves remembering their hits and
forgetting their misses the confirmation
yeah so I knew a psychic or a magician
who was working the Psychic Friends
Network it back in the 90s when it
started to make a living as a magician
doing kids parties they all want to have
their own Vegas show but only a few
people get that so you got to do
something on the side so this guy was
doing Psychic Friends Network and he
told me all about they gave him a book a
three-ring binder and you know here's
the kinds of things you should say
and you know people are calling for love
health money career questions so you can
spend 20 30 minutes at 395 a minute just
going through there you know I sent you
in a relationship right now and one of
you is more committed than the other
tell me about that 10 minutes later you
know they're still talking and you're
thinking about travel you're not happy
with your job there's some financial
stress in your life right now and then
you told me about stuff like now go get
a crystal and then a candle I want you
to set it up here on your desk and this
would go on and on for hours and they
charge by the hour and they are so one
of the problems that the psychic friend
networks had was people were not paying
their phone bills because they you know
come back an $800 for so just not pay it
so the phone companies cracked down on
the Psychic Friends Network company
going hey this is getting out of hand
that people aren't paying their bills so
they had to ratchet the pack a little
bit that's right they would do it
through the phone that's interesting
yeah they wouldn't get a credit card
from you they would just stay on the
line with you right so he told me that
when he first started he got like 60
cents on the minute for the 395 that per
minute but then they bumped it up as he
got more experienced and kept them on
the line longer they gave him bonuses
now you get a dollar per minute or
whatever how is that not illegal he's
not even a psychic shouldn't you have to
like if you want to be a doctor you have
to go and you got to you know go to
medical school get a degree
shouldn't there's a interesting history
there because in New York City for
example it was difficult to outlaw like
the three-card Monte guys on the
sidewalk with the cardboard because it's
just kind of a game right now now it
would be illegal to sell fraudulent
stocks or something like that or sell a
product that's advertised as a health
product when it's not but if say in that
case it's under food rather than drugs
or say no health products like vitamins
are under different standards than say
medical drugs a psychic is more like an
entertainer so this is for entertainment
purposes only so we can do whatever we
want as opposed to a medical doctor
that's dispensing advice
so maybe doctors a bad example maybe I
should have said engineer but the point
is like if you're going to work as a
psychic like on a psychic network if you
have a business of
selling psychics yeah like you should be
able to you have to exhibit some sort of
psychic something yeah well they can't
you know under controlled conditions
they always fail there's nothing that's
ever been done no what about the one
thing that I've read that statistically
more people can recognize that people
are staring at them yeah like when
they're looking at you from behind that
horseshit well it's not been it's not
been consistently replicated so is it
possible some people with a certain
sensitivity can detect well we okay so
one explanation the skeptics explanation
is that if I'm in a say a Starbucks or
something and I kind of have a sense
that people are talking about me maybe
looking at me and and I look and that
catches somebody's eye and they turn to
me and I think oh that person's looking
at me mm-hm I'm looking at them and then
they send something or whatever so there
could be some element of chance to that
now the guy that does this Rupert
Sheldrake you know he believes that it's
actually some kind of like psychic power
through the medium like when I'm looking
at you something's coming out of my eyes
and particularly your neck so that's his
morphic resonance or morphic resonance
now richard wiseman a british like
experimental psychologist he's tried to
replicate that and he always fails and
then this other woman Marilyn Schlitz
she also tried to replicate it and she
was able to replicate some of it so
there may be an experiment or bias it's
not clear if it's the skeptics that are
biased or the believers that are - but
in that case it's best to just say you
know we don't know it so the default
position the null hypothesis is that
it's not true until you prove otherwise
and if that's a that's a difficult one
to prove now if if they say if I say
well why is the effect so subtle why
can't you go to Vegas and become a
millionaire gambling or play the stock
market you know we know traders just
need a tiny you know one point 0.01%
advantage over the other traders
whatever they can mean in terms of just
psychic ability yeah so if the psychic
ability is a very broad term right it's
almost like saying drugs because like
yeah there are certain drugs that put
you to sleep and certain drugs that make
you hyper they have very different
effects so saying psychic ability like
maybe you have the ability to see if
someone's looking at you but you don't
have the ability to pick the lottery
right so the hard part in testing
psychics is to pin down what
exactly are you saying you could do
right and that that's where it gets
pretty fuzzy so these like why is it
legal for the phone psychics because
that you can't pin him down if somebody
says look I'm just giving relationship
advice why is that illegal if I say like
the Tony Robbins Netflix documentary I'm
not your guru which is basically I am
your guru he has that moment in this
huge auditorium there's like 3,000
people there and he gets this woman up
on stage and she's got relationship
problems he says do you have your phone
feels yeah take out your phone and call
him right now and she he talks her
through dumping this guy on stage on the
phone and he's at work or something he's
like what and then she hangs up and
everybody's happy that she did this now
is that a good thing or a bad thing I
have no idea it's great for show
business but would have you know so how
the fuck I mean that seems crazy like
how do you know what kind of
relationship they really have now
somebody to talk to both of them right
wouldn't you somebody that I brought
this up at at an event recently a party
and somebody said oh I know the back
story his staff had been working the
audience and they they knew all about
her and the relationship and it was
about to go sour anyway so we brought
her up it's like okay so this is the
thing with you see the psychics on TV
there's a lot of stuff you don't see
they work the audience they know people
fill out like the psych the faith
healers they fill out prayer cards yeah
they put their name and address and
their ailment and then you know the
faith healers have a little earbud in
there and they're listening to the
person in the back reading okay here's
the person they have you know glaucoma
or whatever and you hear them calling
this out so so there's a lot of that
that we don't see but Anthony Robbins is
not claiming any kind of psychic ability
he's not he's just trying to provide
positive paths for improving your life
and if you're in a bad relationship that
would be a positive path let's get out
of that relationship and there's like
move forward with it with emotion and
power and love and he fucking probably
throw a karate kick and get everybody
pumped up and jump around so Bobby Brown
headphones on no it's like but he's he's
a showman - yeah that's right so this
but but my point is that the psychic
could say the same thing look I'm just
you know I don't know if this but here's
not I mean it's it's weird to put him in
that
right because he's just trying to get
people excited yeah I think he does some
good I really do because he did me some
good when I was 21 years old I used to
listen to his I think it was called
unlimited power I think that was the
name of the book and I listened to it on
audio cassette by the pool shitty
apartment that I was living in when I
was trying to be a stand-up comedian
yeah and it helped me he had some really
good advice in terms of setting goals
and in terms of like the way you
approach things and look at things but I
I agree all of that you know any of
these self-help books you know Jacko's
books or amy Alcon there's a lot of
stuff that very similar to what Tony
Robbins issues and okay that makes sense
set goals and and be motivated and think
positive maybe air a little bit on the
side of over optimism so you can push
through the failures but don't be blind
because maybe it's certain times that
cut and run and change course in your
life something like that the the hard
part is getting is studying that which
you know experimentally which are the
best techniques versus others and
there's a guy wrote a book called sham
sha em self-help actualization movement
and he was the head book guy for Rodale
press that publishes these self-help
books and so his takeaway on in this
book was that that the number one
predictor of people who will buy
self-help books are people who already
bought self-help books and they continue
buying them yeah so if you say does it
work well it works if you work it sort
of consistently like you got to listen
to the tapes like every weekend or I
mean every low moment it's not like
taking the pill and your cancers gone
you have to kind of keep practicing it
as a lifestyle change for it to work
yeah that's you know so what do you mean
by work like so Tony goes into a
corporation and they get a bump this is
an example in this book to get a bump in
sales so they get the salesman all
motivated they hit the phones on Monday
morning you know within two weeks
they're there let the sales are kind of
back to where they were so you get it so
they got to bring the self-help guy back
in every month or so to keep them super
motivated well you got to give them some
sort of incentive to stay stay pumped
right I mean some financial incentives
like it's one of those
old-school phrases the inspiration is
like bathing it works but you have to do
it regularly in order for it to be
effective I like that yeah I mean
bathing works but it doesn't mean you
like hey two months later I smell like
shit it works yeah daily yeah you have
to do it all the time or it's like
saying why can't the NFL teams play the
whole game like the last two minutes cuz
it's so exciting the two-minute drill
because they can't do it physically keep
that up yeah yeah well I think you could
physically keep up that enthusiasm that
Anthony Robbins provides but you have to
be either you have to have some sort of
an office environment that is incredibly
enthusiastic to the point we've you guys
have engineered this environment where
everybody's pumped up but that's gonna
be it I mean that doesn't leave a whole
lot of room for the individual to be
themselves I feel like that would be
terrible to wear a place like that where
everywhere you go there's motivational
sayings and people are you know chanting
things in the hallway and everybody just
got energy at ten let's go you know
that's that's what a guy like Anthony
Robbins will provide you for with a
short burst yeah we just hope that some
of it sticks right well this is you know
an Amy Elkins book unfuck ology it's
great but yeah
she calls these small wins or whoever
calls some small wins like make your bed
in the morning or shave or whatever or
like Jacko's little Twitter post at 4:30
a.m. yes now I'm never getting up at
4:30 but when I get up at 6:30 we'll
occasionally like 5:00 like this morning
for the morning rides that leaves at
7:00 a.m. I get up at 5:30 so I'm not
happy getting up at 5:30 but I think
okay Chacko has been up an hour he's
already worked out it's already done
working out okay I can't really complain
come on Sherrod get going
that that kind of little thing this is
Jordan's Jordan Peterson's point of the
you know make get your life in order
what is he talking about just stand up
straight
make your bed or lean your room what's
he talking about he's talking about
these little winds like if you can do
that then the next thing that's a little
harder kinds of lazier and so it's also
those things that are in the background
if you know that your your life is a
mess your car is filled with fast-food
wrappers here you know your your you've
got that thing that you haven't taken
care of in the back your head that will
that's gonna disrupt it's gonna be
flowing in your thoughts for the most
part it'll be a distraction right so
those little things apparently do matter
there's a theory of crime called the
broken windows theory that is favored by
criminologists to explain the decline
the crime decline in the 90s what
happened in New York City they started
cleaning up the graffiti they started
catching the turnstile jumpers they
started cleaning up the streets they
started you know boarding up windows has
no broken windows or replacing the
windows the theory is that if there's a
signal in society that no one's paying
attention there is no law and order here
there are no rules or norms do whatever
the fuck you want
you're gonna get more crime if you send
the signal through little things like
we're not gonna allow graffiti on this
wall anymore
and no more turnstile jumpers in the
subways and so on and so when when that
happened then there was a trickle-down
effect and then crime decline so that's
the the most popular theory for that and
I think there's something to that yeah
that makes a lot of sense and what they
did with New York City is really kind of
fantastic if you if you go back to when
I was a kid and I traveled to New York
City the first time and I saw Times
Square I guess it was probably like 18
or 19 I was like look at this fucking
crazy place like this is madness and you
know you see it in movies and it's just
always this horrific scene it's always
peep shows and hookers and pimps and
thugs and drug dealers and you go there
now and it's like a mall threw up you
know it's it's like a giant neon mall of
America I'm square if you took a person
if you grabbed a guy from like 1988 and
you put him in a time machine and said
hey man I'm gonna bring you 30 years in
the future and you're gonna see New York
City the way it looks then like what do
you expect like oh my god it's gonna be
like like Blade Runner people gonna be
shooting people and selling body parts
and now you get there it's like Guy
Fieri's restaurant and it's huge
gigantic LCD screens and there's there's
some people that would long for the old
days the dirty seediness yeah Lenny
Bruce talked about you know and he lived
there it's like and I mean
well that has a certain charm I guess
going into the nightclubs or whatever
but the surrounding daytime neighborhood
or something you this is it where you
want to you rather live in them vomitted
mall well I'm not crazy about that
either but but so there's a reason why
cities have certain restrictions on
those kinds of stories coming but but in
a crappy neighbor like you know downtown
Old Town Pasadena now is kind of a hip
place to go yeah but in the 70s when I
mean I went to the Ice House maybe you
know back in the day in the 70s
just as a spectator and but it was
terrible down there and was it really oh
yeah it was a dump I mean there was a
Sedin Oh terrible yeah it was horrible
the word was according to my friend Bob
Fisher who owns the ice house he said
that what it was was in the early days
of Hollywood the producers would all buy
homes in Pasadena these they have these
beautiful old estates in Pasadena yeah
but the stars would all live in the
Hollywood Hills right so they would all
be just boozing it up and partying it
down and the Hollywood Hills and the
producers like let those crazy animals
go have at it in the hills we're gonna
back out a little bit and they establish
that community out there in Pasadena
right right so to turn it around like
one of the key things a mall can do is
get in what they call an anchor store
someone like a sex 5th Avenue somebody
that's really respectable big and then
you can call the other guys go look we
got sex Fifth Avenue oh you had sex with
a veneer and then I can be next to him
and then it's you know stairs going and
then little by little each of them
cleans up their neighborhood a little
bit more and pretty soon you end up with
Old Town Pasadena no well I was telling
you guys before I had an issue today
where my credit card got robbed and you
know whatever credit card fraud someone
got ahold of my number which is really
that's the one thing that people worry
about the most about shopping online
right but I guess that could kind of
happen everywhere you know but you got
to think that if there's anything that
has changed malls more than anything
it's got to be the ability to just shop
online on your phone like Amazon that
the fact that they figured that out yeah
I remember when Amazon came out and it
was just a book store I was like who the
fuck is gonna buy books online you just
go to the book store
ridiculous right what a stupid business
meanwhile that guy has more money than
any human on the planet that's right
yeah
poor bastards getting divorced too I
heard last night that there's a role in
wash Washington that everything that you
make as a couple you have to split I'm
gonna go there for over 25 years
well California California law is yes
50/50 well long term marriage is 20
years or 10 years or more it's 50/50 and
that includes downstream income oh you
know from anything you did that you're
still getting paid for say ten years ago
you wrote a book or whatever
well mrs. Bezos is getting hey he's
worth a hundred plus billion dollars
thirty-seven they said Wow
so she's gonna get half of that they're
probably gonna because it's a lot of
stock that's that they're gonna have to
just be stay friends oh she should be
super nice to him he would he feel he
gives her a quarter she's like I got
rolling I got wrong the richest people
and you know but after all these
bookstores are in that business there's
some irony that Amazon now wants to
start opening physical brick-and-mortar
stores that is kind of ironic but it
doesn't make sense though because there
are some brick-and-mortar stores and I
think that guys are Konqueror I think he
just wants to take over everything
well why also be by Whole Foods you know
I was like oh the supermarket business I
can fuck this up too well I don't know
maybe get order Whole Foods delivered to
your house I think the I don't know if
that's available yet but I think it is
right
yes gonna say now most grocery stores
even like all the Ralph's have home
delivery within two hours to compete
with Amazon Prime yeah
Wow or and if they don't do that you can
just order it online and pick it up
bring out this yeah I went to pavilions
the other day and they had a bunch of
delivery trucks parked in the parking
lot I was like look at this I think of
these cool delivery trucks have to one
has that one right the store you can
walk in there's no cashiers they just
trust that everyone's not stealing and I
think they just are comfortable with a
certain amount of theft oh wow
yeah hmm that's interesting well they
probably have cameras everywhere too you
know but it's um the online purchasing
like that has got to put that must be
putting the most
as far as like the most impact on stores
brick-and-mortar stores it's like the
ability to purchase online it's got to
be devastating for them right
totally and up in Santa Barbara where I
live now just riding up State Street
this morning at the end of the ride you
know it's like maybe a quarter the
stores are closed out of business empty
and you know State Street Santa Barbara
this was like the happenin place to be
and I and real estate friend of mine
says oh well let's see that store there
that's you know twenty two thousand
dollars a month to lease like whoa okay
so you have to you have to have a retail
outlet that's really turning over the
customers and there's a lot that just
can't do that you can't have an antique
store that's gonna do that or a little
knick-knack store Santa Barbara is one
of my favorite places and it's it's
really interesting because it's it's a
small area like I don't think there's a
hundred and fifty thousand people less
than area it's about ninety thousand is
it Montecito included or with - you
don't cluded alito Goleta is like
another 30,000 or so and then but below
that you have Carpinteria that's like
another 20,000 or so so yeah it's that's
great you get the right spot man but
it's also I feel like it needs to be
that close to Los Angeles yeah like you
get a little bit of trickle I can zip
down there 75 miles from my house to
your studio here in my office in
Altadena for skeptic magazine that's 105
miles so it's doable yeah yeah yeah but
it's it's I think that human beings when
they're living in these gigantic
communities whether it's Los Angeles or
New York or something like that there's
just a certain amount of people become
less valuable you know there's just too
many of them and you you lose that sort
of appreciation for people and there's
like a tension around like you don't
mind if a few people drop off yeah
there's a balance in size my wife's from
Cologne Germany which is about 1 million
people and that's that's about as big as
you want to get it's big enough City
there's lots of action you could do all
sorts of things but it's not you know 6
million or 10 million which is just like
LA it's just too many have you ever seen
that study that they did where they set
up a camera on one end of the street and
the camera on the other end of the
street and they timed people walking
through
and in those in the the the the footage
of those people walking through they
were able to determine by how fast these
people walked they got an average which
was really accurate of how many people
lived in the city yeah yeah yeah yeah
scale yes yeah there's that book that
physicist West Jeff GE o FF West I think
is his name wrote that book and and the
bigger the city the more efficient and
faster things become yeah including
dialogue the way people communicate talk
a little faster and he had a formula
showing how many restaurants per hundred
thousand at gas stations per hundred
thousand you'll get as you scale up you
don't need as many restaurants and gas
stations as populations increase because
there's more efficiency in the flow of
traffic and people throughout the city
whereas smaller towns are less efficient
that was the theory it's but it's just
fascinating that human beings adjust
because of all of these other human
beings around them they change the way
they walk they walk faster they talk
faster this right here yes the
university life in death in organism
cities and companies yes thing too right
now actually are you really yeah like
coincidentally coinkidink II yeah that's
that's I mean you feel it you know when
I lived in Boulder for a short amount of
time one of the things you know Boulder
small as well I think it's a hundred
thousand people when I came back here
the first thing I realize is how fast
everyone's driving everyone's just
cutting everybody off and zoom in ahead
and and people are like really in a rush
everywhere they go and that has to be in
some way shape or form it has to be
influenced by all the other people
around them and their energy right what
is that's right what do you think that
is though well first of all is all
unconscious I think it's it's just
mostly the kind of overall pace you get
that pushes everybody along or slows
them down I just started this book
called rule makers and rule breakers
it's a by a woman who is a cultural
psychologist sorry I forget her name it
may be because look oh so rule makers
rule breakers so he talks about tight
cultures versus loosey
fast as a fucking Michelle Gelfand yeah
so she talks about tight versus loose
cultures so like again my wife from
Germany it's a tighter culture that the
north people are more likely to obey
norms and rules and there's a little
more uncomfortableness in violating them
California we're a little loosey-goosey
about rules and and so my wife's always
giving me a hard time about my idea of
traffic laws is I'll just do whatever
you know I feel like pretty much if as
long as it's safe and I kind of know you
know I'm driving up the 101 if I stay at
79 or below I'm fine and she's like but
that speed limit 65 yeah so what I know
where the cops Park I know everybody
else is going and the left turn into our
street as a as a left arrow so of course
my wife she's just like well we gotta
wait it's like but it's midnight I'm
just gonna go you can't go it's like
yeah this is California I'm going no one
here there's nowhere yeah yeah so that's
a tight culture versus loose culture so
she I guess she's gonna talk about how
norms then affect laws and how then
people change their behavior you're not
even where you're doing this you're just
kind of unconsciously absorbing the
cultures but what do you think I mean
there but there's a difference between
West Coast tight culture like or large
groups rather and East Coast
large groups do you think that's
influenced by whether it's one of things
that I've been thinking about a lot so
the the aggression of East Coasters is
very different than the aggression of
West Coasters and I always wonder it's
like how much of that is because they
have to deal with shit whether for five
months out of the year it could be out
of that I don't know and the influence
of immigrants as well like because like
my parents my grandparents were
immigrants they all came over from
England and Ireland and Italy and they
were all savages there were all people
that were willing to get on a boat and
cross the ocean right you know there's
an aggressive people they're like I'm
getting out of here fuck you higher
higher risk takers yes yes yes yeah yes
it's not a random population that came
to America nor with Australia you know
you send all these convicts there it's
it's not going to be a typical gene pool
there yeah but meanwhile how good does
that work
those are the nicest ever well same
thing you know Germans you know here
after World War one in World War two oh
these are bellicose people but they're
this international character now they're
the nicest people in the world they
don't want to fight anybody yeah that's
one generation right more than that I
mean they have massive war guilt and and
Mona's guilt I mean they are all raised
in in taking tons of classes in school
about what happened
why we're never gonna do this again
here's what we did at that you know
they're still paying Israel reparations
for that there are these little
stumbling stones that are the sort of
brass square cubes in all over Germany
of the name and year that the person was
murdered these are all Jews in front of
the house where they used to live
they're all over the place yeah I have a
picture of them in the moral arc here
I'll show you it's it's really dramatic
it's and when you stand east you
literally stumble across them I mean
they're just there in the street you
might if you google stumbling stones you
can see that they're better in for color
another interesting thing about Germany
is they won't let Scientology and
they're very sensitive about cults and
cult behavior that's right well there's
another reason for that and that is
given the pictures now in Germany most
people don't know this there's a
religious or those gyms go so that's
what they look so they're actually
above-ground yeah so you're just walking
along and you look down some of them
those are not they're not like that
right they're not like little bricks on
the ground they're like that you just
saw them in the ground
yeah and they're in front of house for
the east to live the date that they were
departed in the date that they were
murdered and where they were murdered
Josh wits or a Treblinka my donek and so
on yeah there you go so it's pretty
moving it's and it's a it's kind of a
reminder this is what we did and we're
not going to do this again remember it
so so that's that's changing norms how
does this happen really it's you can do
it through the law from the top down but
really it's more culture from the bottom
up you were saying that there's another
reason besides that besides the
Holocaust that they're sensitive to
Scientology oh yeah because in Germany
they have a religious withholding tax
so when you get your first job they do a
withholding for your religion and they
give a percentage of your paycheck to
your religion the religion you were born
into baptized whatever it's mostly
Catholic and Protestant but others want
to get in on that because that's
cumulative you know you can make some
money doing this as a religion the
humanists have Germany get a little
piece of this action it's considered a
religion so Scientology when they saw
that they went okay free government
money tax money and the Germans got no
you're not a real religion and you're
not getting in on this and yeah so I
again when when my wife came here before
she came here she quit church and you
literally have to go down to the
courthouse fill out a form and say I am
leaving the church please don't take my
money anymore out of my paycheck so you
have to opt out you will be giving money
to your religion unless you fill out the
form and opt out Wow and and in this
case is kind of a funny story they go
okay so just make sure you know now if
you sign this you can't get married in a
Catholic Church can't get buried in
Catholic to hurt you can't go to this
you know the ceremonies and so on you're
done as she goes yep that's the way I
want it she went down there with her
four horsemen t-shirt said Dawkins
Dennett Harris and Hitchens and they're
like anyway so they said up but now okay
the moment you sign it starts effective
today but there's a three-month lag for
us to not take the money out of your
paycheck what's my wife is like yeah
like wait a minute it when a business in
a business when a contract ends it ends
for both parties they go no they're just
gonna steal money for three months four
months yeah what a weird thing that you
have to opt out like that that it has to
be so definitive that you have to sign
papers and go someplace what a fuckin
shady law it is it's no good I know
that's got to change so a lot of us are
trying to like talk people into opting
out quit Church well it is amazing that
in this country I mean I would like to
know what the number is if the churches
in this country had to pay taxes I mean
clearly especially when you look at the
televangelists that are driving Rolls
Royces and flying around in private jets
I mean there's a profit there's extreme
amount of profit and it's discretionary
income they could do whatever they
want with it and you're dealing with
massive massive sums of money and they
don't contribute so these people are
clearly personally benefiting from the
contributions of these people and then
they don't pay taxes on and in the case
of like ministers who live in a church
owned home they don't have to pay
property tax you know so there's a lot
of hidden benefits there it's dirty
yeah it is dirty it's amazing that it's
still here I mean especially when you
deal with something like Scientology
well you know the guy who wrote it right
like this is not some ancient text that
we're in this is you know the guy and
the guy was a terrible writer yeah I
mean he was a terrible science-fiction
author he just wrote every fucking thing
he wrote was a first draft just boom
gone I mean it's just the most
nonsensical nonsense writing and yet
they don't have to pay taxes because
it's considered a legitimate religion
Harless Harlan Ellison the great science
fiction writer died this year told me
the story of what the famous story where
L ron Hubbard allegedly said you know
I'm gonna go start a religion yeah he
said it was it's real it's a true story
they were but but it was just a bunch of
science fiction writers sitting around
like this chatting and complaining about
how poorly paid they are they have to
crank out by the word you know Kenny a
word kind of thing and somebody said you
know we should just start a religion and
make shit up like that and you know ron
Hubbard yeah you know that's a good idea
I think I think I might do that and then
he went out and wrote Dianetics and that
became the founding document of
Scientology did you watch the the HBO
series on it the the documentary oh yeah
the going clear yeah unbelievable that's
the best documentary on and of course
I've seen all Leah's mmm show she's got
big guts to go out I don't know if she's
got the good lawyers or Andy has good
lawyers or whatever maybe they've
stopped suing people I don't know I
think the climate has shifted and I
think people are more first of all for
the longest time all we thought of when
you thought about Scientology thought
about positive thinking and John
Travolta and Tom Cruise and they're all
super positive you know and they're
getting things done and there's auditing
and they're really taking care of their
mind and you know but thinking clearly
and eliminating all the negative
influence
but then once there's a bunch of factors
I think but once the internet opened up
these the the doctrines and you got a
chance to read it and people got a
chance to mock it and then you know
South Park did that whole series on it
whether this is what they actually
believe and you see like when South Park
did that everybody was like holy shit
wait a minute is that real and then
people started googling it and then
looking into it and then it started to
unravel slowly but surely people started
leaving the church Lawrence Wright wrote
the book all these things are happening
and now Leah's coming in and Leah was
you know I knew her but I mean I'm
friends with Kevin James from the king
and queen so I've known Leah for 20-plus
years and when I first met her she was
just like this hard-ass beautiful woman
who's just like driven and like like
she's a Scientologist get the fuck out
of her way you know it was like that
she's just like super active and just
getting things done and just being
productive I mean that's what you
thought about when you thought about
Scientology but now what you think about
it is like nonsense and it's a
foolishness and and once going clear
aired and you got to see l ron Hubbard
and listen to him talk and you you see
the captain's outfit he had on with the
medals that he gave himself like who
would buy this it's so dumb it's just
it's amazing that it it's so effective
and so financially successful yeah I
think their membership roles are pretty
low but their property holdings I think
our personal offensive yeah I mean
they're the second biggest real estate
owner in Los Angeles is that right yeah
Wow at least they were there's some
Japanese folks that were number one and
then it was number two was Scientology
maybe that's not true anymore might be
oil barons now yeah well back in the 90s
when the internet first got cranked up
we were doing issue articles on
Scientology is when some of these ex
members started posting the secret
doctrines the Z news story and then
going clear you know at level 8 or
whatever when you find out the the
inside story and they got raided I mean
the Scientologists went to court to
court to judges and said this is
copyrighted material
and it's like wait you're a religion how
can you copyright the religious well and
they somehow got around that I mean this
would be like the Catholic Church not
telling you about Jesus in the
resurrection until level eight after
you've paid a hundred thousand dollars
or something like that it's just insane
well what's amazing is that the IRS
caved internal I believe when that
happened I remember when that happened I
thought oh my god I don't want to fuck
with these guys I mean they beat the IRS
I'm a nobody
how am I gonna defend myself but maybe
they've stopped suing people maybe
they're not going after Li la la real
estate here goes mmm portfolio
properties reported at four hundred
million dollars in Hollywood alone paid
for in cash no less the Church of
Scientology is undeniably a formidable
player in the real estate game yeah
that's what you got they have some
beautiful properties too yeah it's just
really amazing it's amazing
so you know my my skipping friends you
know they're gonna go out of business
anytime soon it's like I don't know I
think they could have practically no
members and still they have all this
real estate here's the thing even though
it's nonsense just so is most religion
let's just be honest I mean I want to
talk about guys coming back from the
dead after being birthday three days or
Adam and Eve being the only two people
and they have kids and their kids just
start having sex with each other and
that makes all the people in the world
or Moses parting the Red Sea and Jesus
walking on water I mean you're looking
at horse shit everywhere it's just older
horse shit it's you know whether or not
it's based on some real events or some
real people who knows who knows you know
but it's all nonsense if you've heard
Julia Sweeney's monologue letting go of
God no do you know Julia from Saturday
Night Live I know who she is I do not
know her yeah she just moved back to LA
so you should have her on the show she's
love to so she was born and raised
Catholic love being a Catholic the whole
culture and you know that was great and
then she started reading Dawkins and me
and Harris and so on and then kind of
let all that go and then she wrote a
monologue it's very moving so the
monologue opens she's in her house in
Hollywood and the Mormon boys come by
and she invites them in and they want to
you know tell the story and she's
thinking this is like a Hollywood pitch
story you're gonna pitch the story and
I'll get back to you later till you know
how I like it
no no they want to do you know that
actually you know press to see if she
could join right then and there you know
they're on their two-year mission that
they do you know so that you make sure
these two 18 year olds with their white
starched shirts and their bicycles and
so Julia starts pressing him a little
bit so what's the story here well see
this guy Joseph Smith he he found these
gold plates in his backyard and he
translated them from ancient
hieroglyphics into English and with
these magic stones and they're going on
and then Jesus came to America and there
was the good Indians and the bad Indians
and Jill he's like I just want to tell
him I don't start with this story this
is a bad bitch story even the
Scientologists know don't tell him about
Xenu until way down the line yeah that
but then she says reflecting on it you
know if if I told somebody my Catholic
story who never heard of it it would
sound just as wacky yeah because it's
virgin and the resurrection what yeah
all of its wacky a hundred percent I
mean it's like we were talking about
early when you die what's going to
happen is you don't know you don't know
and the reality is it look maybe there's
an afterlife maybe when we stop living
something happens and our essential
energy goes into another dimension it's
possible but you don't know look being
alive is so titanically bizarre just
being a human being looking through
eyeballs at each other across from this
wooden table that was cut down from
living organisms that turn into hard
surfaces you sand them and Psalm and
then you put it in a building and it's
got electricities rolling through the
walls and if you stuck a fork in there
you die all of it is crazy the fact that
we're in a planet I mean the fact that
the universe is at least as far as we
can tell infinite all that stuff is
crazy the idea that your essential
energy doesn't transfer into some other
state why not yeah the whole thing's
crazy but you don't know that's right no
one is you don't know to you know
whenever you say something that you're
not sure of and you say this is what's
going to happen but you don't really
know you're a huckster that's right
yeah absolutely no one knows no one
knows and that's the conclusion of
heavens on earth I don't know and you
don't either I saw a bumper sticker that
said militant agnostic I don't know
you don't either so I mean we have to
okay so here's my bottom line on this
yeah I don't know you don't no one knows
for sure I'm happy to wake up in some
great place and there's my friends
they'll be awesome unless unless it odd
was math you didn't follow the rules
well that that's right Christopher
Hitchens called the Christian heaven
celestial North Korea
it's like Christmas dictator that knows
everything you do and controls
everything forever celestial North Korea
but he doesn't tell you anymore I told
you already I told you 2,000 years ago
this dude wrote it down pay attention to
that but then it's not even that right
it's like one guy might have write it
down a long time ago but then a bunch of
other dudes got together and how to
revise it they're like a new draft and
the new draft they get to decide people
got to decide what goes in and what
doesn't go in and some of the stories
are based on write accounts from
hundreds of years after Jesus's death
like the Bible is a wiki it's like a wig
yeah the people contributed to over the
years and so on Hitchens at a great
analogy with when he was dying he wrote
a series of essays for Vanity Fair his
column which you can get as a book now I
think it's called mortality or something
like that anyway one of them was people
think dying is like you're at a party
and someone taps you on the shoulder and
says you have to leave now and worse the
party's gonna go on without you oh no he
goes okay so let's play this out you're
at the party and you get tapped on the
shoulder and said you can never leave
the party you have to stay here forever
with these people like when at Julia's
funny lines is the the Mormon boys were
telling or like in heaven it's going to
be great you you get your maid hold
again like the blind shall see and the
Deaf shall hear again and the crippled
shall be hold again she said well I had
uterine cancer and I had my uterus taken
out do I get my uterus back and they're
like you can imagine these 18 year old
again and they're like yeah you get your
uterus back she goes I don't want it
back and then she said what if you had a
nose job and you liked it do I have to
have my old nose back in him and that's
a good point
yeah so and then they said and you get
to spend the rest of
with your family and she went huh no
that would not be good in my case maybe
they'll be cured though they'll realize
the errors of their way so you'll be all
enlightened well here's the problem so
this is called a problem of identity who
are you and you know you know that
Theseus is ship you know the Greek
Minotaur Slayer Theseus comes back and
is a hero and they and they preserve his
ship in the museum forever but the wood
rots and they replace the ship and over
the centuries there's no wood left from
the original but it's still cherished as
if I call this schirmer's Mustang
because my first car was a 66 Ford
Mustang classic and I had that for 19
years of those cars it's a it was a
great car but I banged it up so much I
replaced this and that you know ever
pretty much by the time I sold it as a
classic and made it a nice little chunk
of change on it there was very little of
the original left right but it's the
pattern not the material moonbounce
so this whole debate about when you're
resurrected in heaven with Jesus what's
up there is it your physical body if
because some Christian sects say yeah
it's like okay how old are you when
you're in heaven 30 this is the year
they came up with because that's the
year age Jesus was when he was crucified
okay but if Johanna held 40-something 51
you're 51 okay so if if you're
resurrected at 30 year old joe rogan
what happened to the last 21 years of
Joel Rogen's body memories I want to go
back to that dude you don't know you're
happy where you are and yes for sure
yeah yeah yeah well that means you a
well live life so what's up there with
Jesus or I wouldn't we're having that
body 30 year old body of like less
problems your injuries yes yeah I've
been beating on it for 21 years since
then right it's like when I was 30s when
I got hardcore into jujitsu so that's 20
years of getting choked but of course
the Christian would say well God makes
you whole again you'll have no injuries
but that's not really part of you
part of you is your injuries yes what I
was gonna say those but all those did
all the stuff that I did that hurt me I
also learn from that's right make me
stronger well not just that like learned
the story I think through incremental
struggle whether it's like rigorous
exercise or
learning something or I think everything
that I do that's difficult makes me just
a little bit more aware a little bit
better at other things just a little bit
a little bit better to talk to a little
bit easier to deal with a little more
friendly and all those things I think I
wouldn't give up for anything I think
that's more important than whatever
injuries I've got with I think you know
I wonder how you're gonna feel when
you're 81 if you feel like that like
there's got to be a point of diminishing
returns like look I'd rather be stupid
in 40 than to be enlightened and can't
get out of bed very well my older
Atlantic friends tell me it's about mid
80s when things drop off fairly quickly
they could stay pretty fit into their
70s maybe still racing bike racing at 80
but 85 or so things drop off pretty
quick that's where you got to go to a
hormone replacement or whatever yeah or
the ice plunges or the yeah the the
young person's blood or something okay
so I deal with it you know there's no
break through miracles yet but again I'm
not against any of these things
happening you know when when someone
like Jeff Bezos puts a hundred million
dollars into an aging company
I hope he's successful does he have one
hundred million dollars in an aging
company he and Peter Thiel and the
Google guys through calico and a few
others have invested many hundreds of
millions of dollars into cut like calico
for example these are companies that are
trying to their big goal is to defeat
aging through re-engineering cells
something and that that's the sort of
philosophical goal behind it is we have
to defeat aging so people can live for
centuries or forever to which I say
let's not worry about living 500 years
let's let's worry about like get
prostate cancer and breast cancer and
Alzheimer's and dementia and so just a
little incremental medical problem
quality of life things what are the
things that take people out young yeah
right so that you can live a longer
higher-quality life but don't imagine
Michael Shermer at 300 years old no I
keep this body if you can keep the body
that you have now you're moving around
great everything's well you look really
healthy how smart would you be how much
how much more enlightened more wise
maybe is the wise
I'm not against that I'm happy to live
as long as I possibly can there what if
they're people they go that's not right
it's not natural it's like okay what's
natural
there's surveys on this people and
people's answer is whatever the current
average lifespan is so well 80 seems
about right okay fast-forward to your
the day before your 80th birthday
tomorrow you're gonna go you want
another week yeah I'll take another week
okay then fast-forward six days would
you like another month I'll take another
month thank you and and that would never
end so of course if you're healthy and
happy and you don't want to off yourself
or whatever it is you're super super
depressed or something like that yes
you're just gonna want to keep going
nothing wrong with that if we can do
that but what if you die and it's way
better what if you die and you really do
you leave your physical body there's no
need for emotions and all the
entanglements of human existence and you
go to this beautiful place of bliss in
life yeah love and it's just pure love
without a body
yeah unembodied yeah unhindered I don't
know would that be fun I don't know
what's is that what we're here for we're
here for fun we're not just doing a
shitty job to the channel going crazy
right now we should be in a party van on
the way to Vegas I had a college
professor when I was in my Christian
days who asked me when I was pitching
him the Christian story he says are
there golf courses and tennis courts in
heaven because I like physical
challenges you want to get out there and
push myself right I don't know yeah so I
mean would happen be no challenges no
working out no physical you know
tensions is true right yeah and if you
don't need it and so you'd have to
remove that part of humanity that we'd
no longer want challenges and to be
pushed to better ourselves do they play
chess in heaven yeah that's right right
right you to win in heaven or is
everybody a winner everybody gets a gold
medal and a Nobel Prize and whatever
that's that is a problems but the things
that we're attracted to the things we
enjoy accomplishments and achievements
and all these things that they exist
only inside of the civilization inside
of this this realm that we've created
the significance of them is entirely
based on our own agreements that you
know it's important when you
the king it's it's important when the
ball goes into the net these we've
agreed you know when someone shoots a
three-pointer it's really not that big a
deal you're just throwing a ball into a
hole nothing really significant happens
but because we've attached all this
meaning to that then it's something that
we really want to see and everybody
score the goal went in the puck went in
the net yes it becomes a giant thing if
they just have no good answer for this
when you say well what's heaven like
well the psychics will tell you it's a
bliss and lover but what does that mean
it sounds again back to hitch it sounds
boring yeah I have to stay at this party
forever that sounds boring did you ever
see the guy who took a photo of himself
in heaven no
he used the samsung galaxy phone yeah to
take to take a picture of himself in
heaven or there what clouds or just
white is him like smiling it is one of
the funniest fucking photos you're ever
gonna find in the internet just because
the context of it and it's fun yeah I
believe he was an African gentleman who
was either he's telling the truth or
he's you know hilariously full shit I
mean imagine if he really did go to
heaven and took a picture and we're just
mocking him maybe we should be going to
him for advice that's right so what does
it really found it you see the picture I
find the mocking the memes of making fun
of them afterwards there's no actual
picture I'm trying to find the original
just googled man takes I did that's what
they so overwhelmingly mocking it's so
good oh that's gotta be playing a large
part yet it everyone yeah but no it was
all white it wasn't like that it wasn't
that it was just like it was that
picture of him holding his hand up like
that but it was just the background
wasn't rainbows and shit like that
you could find it man I have a faith in
you I found it the other day it's a you
know it's just hilarious that someone
would be so confident to put that
picture online knowing full well that
the world is gonna see that picture and
start rubbing a guy who sold his soul on
eBay I forget what he got for it but
and then a lot of religious people are
offended by this you can't sell your
soul Wow
you sold your soul to your religion did
he get a good price I don't know I think
it was a few bucks or something yes and
I forget he want it go to dinner with
that yeah that's right
but my concern about all of this
obsession with the afterlife that's not
it this is from his page it says woke up
this morning and saw this had to take a
picture oh okay that's not the actual
photo the photo of him in heaven is with
hilarious it's that picture with him
that far left far left that's it that's
it that's the photo that is him that is
the photo went to heaven and that's it
that's the exact photo he took I don't
know who took the portal he's like hey
angel do me a solid yes not a selfie no
his one hand is down so he's not is not
taking with that hand the other hand is
up lets him in heaven love it the
Internet is so good for mocking things
though it's so good it's one of the best
things ever in terms of like there's so
many people that are paying attention
and so many people that are funny that
aren't comedians per se they just might
work in an office somewhere and they've
got a little bit of free time and
they'll make a hilarious meme about
something and then everybody runs with
it and things just get mocked
mercilessly remember the video of the
guy he was having an interview and his
kid started walking in behind him and
he's trying to talk about foreign
relations in Poland or something and the
little kid is back here and then
somebody the wife rushes in and so yeah
anyway there's a bunch of funny spoof
videos on that where it says that some
woman is sitting there talking about
nuclear strategy or whatever and then
the kid comes in she's ironing the shirt
and then she diffuses a bomb and then
she cleans up the socks or whatever it's
funny yeah there's it's just we we were
always all of our information was
distributed to us through these very
controlled networks rather it's CBS or
NBC or ABC and everything was very cut
and dry and very professional in the way
people talk the way information was
presented but now it's just it's open
and like as soon as I find out about
something happened in the world I google
it I go what is it what happened what
happened I google it
then I'll go to Twitter and when I go to
Twitter it's all pictures and memes and
and it's the dude with the question
marks you know that guys like you know
there's like so many memes that people
will throw up when anything crazy
happens in the world it becomes so
interesting to hear the news and hear
commentary in the news from this just
gigantic mass of humans and it's what's
most funny or most interesting or most
succinct or poignant that rises to the
top yep
yeah there's endless content to
entertain also just high-quality yeah
content I mean I'm a Content producer I
write and so on and but I am a huge
consumer I go most of the people I
follow on Twitter post articles most of
them I want to read and so in the course
of a couple hours my little window
pop-ups you know just spread across the
top of the screen I want to read all of
these articles and I plow through as
many as I can
they're pretty much like the Atlantic or
Vanity Fair time whatever they're pretty
high quality well-written articles
the problem is is a Content producer
myself is that the half-life of these
articles is so short
like when I post one of my Scientific
American columns
metallo dove work into it and then you
know like a couple hours later or maybe
a day later god no one's talking about
done yeah well I put a lot of work into
that yeah but it out of the equation
like the New York Times did that huge
New York Times Sunday magazine article
on Trump's business going all the way
back to the 70s right right they spent
like a year working on this like ten
journalists this would have been a
Pulitzer Prize winning piece this would
have done in anybody else but Trump
right I mean they had his old you know
business contracts and lawsuits and you
know all the shady stuff going on and
and this got huge media attention for
about a day and a half and by two you
know Sunday morning by Tuesday no one's
talking about this anymore it's like
these guys spent a year working on this
I mean what did it take to get that
lawsuit paperwork from the courthouse
you know and they had hundreds of things
like that is like gun like whoa well it
Trump in particular there's so many
scandals that I think we've all become
numb yeah there is that - yeah there's
so many that you do
you get numb to it and it doesn't
doesn't affect you you just like her we
paid off a woman whatever yeah those are
the tiny ones the big ones are the
lawsuits the businesses you know the
construction businesses where he didn't
pay small companies who didn't pay him
like what sue me and then these
companies went under like there's a lot
of those right there's a lot of the the
the unethical business practice that's
all in that article yeah again anybody
else would be done in by something like
that any politician except him it's just
amazing well it's also what he
represents to those people it doesn't
necessarily have to be what he really is
it's what he represents what he
represents is like the American flag and
eagles and like they have this like
really juvenile sense some folks do of
what he is and what he represents right
you know this despite all the evidence
to the contrary they have him in this
category that he's gonna drain the swamp
and these liberals are just gonna cry
and he's gonna make America better right
you know and that's just that's that's
the side that they're on they're on the
make America better yeah yeah do you
think it's also people don't have the
time to really look into this stuff who
could fact-check these things it's not
just that it's like if you work eight
hours a day and you have children and
hobbies and how much time you really
paying attention to Trump's ethics are
you really really looking into it no I
really considering it before you vote
are you really taking into consideration
what kind of a person he is and what
what ripple effect it would have with
any of these policies take place I think
you're right people vote by their team
this is my team I'm sticking okay so he
won the primary all right that's my
that's our guy we're shipping with him
no matter what I think there's a huge
element of that for sure yeah there's
also people love to argue online too and
as soon as they find someone who's
opposed to something that they believe
in they stick to their guns and they
just hold strong despite all and I mean
it would take so much for people to turn
on Trump the real hardcore Trump
believers it would take so much for them
to decide enough is enough
yeah well be interesting to see if
members of his own party do something in
2020 probably not doesn't it seem like
with Fox that Fox is slowly starting to
shift their their coverage a little bit
by criticizing him a little bit they're
pushing back a little bit Shepard Smith
is pretty good on that he's always been
that way yeah yeah he's always been
great at
you'll probably last to go he's never
going he's never come he's not if they
had the same fucking lawyer yeah that's
right I mean the fact that that didn't
st. Canidae right you know that he had
Michael Cohen was his lawyer like Oh yep
yeah the only thing we count on the
media is that there's lots of sources
and you just have to just cross-check as
many as you can don't take on any one
channel well I wish there was a really
truly objective service like it would be
wonderful if there was people that were
dedicated to no editorial slant
whatsoever just 100% fact this is how we
know the facts
regardless left right no ideological
curve to it at all
wouldn't that be fair that there's got
to be a market to that yeah of course
they all say that that's what they do
PolitiFact is pretty good they they're
the fact-checking organization that I
mean they're not purporting news at
reporting on politics and the facts said
by politicians yes so that's useful and
I think there's a market competition
amongst those people to get more hits
yeah like we're fact-checking more than
the other guys are fact checking
although there is two different there
was aim accuracy in media and then there
was another one I forget the name and
one was left-leaning and one was right
leaning it's like can I have one without
a wing you know you don't know right
wing no left wing
yeah it seems like that I mean I'm
reading Jonathan hates book the the two
books that I've been reading recently
one of them we discussed on the podcast
we did on Monday but the other one is
the cobbling of the American I'm into
that now and it's it's fantastic and he
goes he covers this quite a bit yeah
yeah you know Jonathan is onto something
good there with the heterodox Academy
which I'm a member professor at Chapman
University and so I was the first member
there and our university is pretty
centrist we don't get a lot of these
protests and microaggressions and safe
space stuff it's it's pretty quiet and
Jonathan's point is that it's more of a
sort of East Coast West Coast public
university thing or maybe Harvard that
kind of thing middle of the country you
don't see as much of that but the you
know the polarization thing has got
where she can see the poll since like
1990 to 2018 of you know yes people have
how evil are the Democrats or
Republicans and you know you know you
used to be you know tiny little
differences and they've you know they
diverge like that now where the other
side is not just wrong but they're
immoral they are people I do think talk
radio and television feeds into that you
know if you just or now social media hmm
in the bubble there so but on the other
hand they get in the heterodox Academy
has like 2,000 members now professors
that said yep I'm gonna stand up against
this censorship on college campuses you
you were talking to Jonathan about
people go Xion you had peed on and I've
known Pete for many years before the
hoax papers and I think they've had it
in for him the long before the hoax
papers well let's explain that to people
so this could be standalone Pete
Bogosian James Lindsay and what is the
long island pluck rose and she wasn't on
the podcast so I didn't get to meet her
but they she's in England I believe
right they published a bunch of
preposterous papers like really
ridiculous like on you know homo what is
it the dog park one yeah agriculture and
car park and the in the retranslation of
a chapter from mine comp replacing femme
it was males with Jews yeah eliminate
the males they can yeah so they did one
before they actually Pete and James
Lindsay did one two years ago on the
conceptual penis it was called and that
the penis is a concept it's not it's not
a real thing you know it's just you know
it's a hilarious paper and the same
month that came out it was published in
a kind of a third-tier feminist studies
journals so they got criticized like
that's not one of the big ones so you
didn't really Oaks anything but the same
week that came out there was another
paper published on feminist Glaciology
and I thought oh someone beat peak to
the hoax oh my god this is totally and I
read it I thought this is what's hotter
boat is at Lacey ology you know the
study of glaciers oh yeah and that you
know glaciers are very hard and and and
erect and you
so masculine and yeah anyway so I called
the university that was affiliated with
the lead author and I said this is a
hoax right come on just before I say
anything I don't wanna be embarrassed
this is a hoax right no no this is real
it's like I can't tell the difference
between the conceptual penis paper which
I know is a hoax cuz Pete wrote it and
the feminist glaciology paper that's the
problem
well let's explain what's happening to
Pete now because Pete was brought before
Portland State University they there
would examine him with with with faking
data fraudulent data fraudulent research
faking data that he didn't go through
the institutional research board which
approves experiments that professors
want to run like for example you cannot
do Milgram shock experiments where you
hook people up and tell them they're
you're gonna give electric shocks to
somebody they may wouldn't approve that
or or Phil Zimbardo fake jail where you
randomly assign students to be prisoners
or guards and they end up beating each
other and they would never approve that
okay so since that those sort of
guerrilla theater experiments of the
sixties the universities have tightened
up the kind of researcher allowed to do
even like the kinds of questions you
would ask in a survey they have to
approve all of that so of course
Pete and James and Helen didn't do that
because the first person well you know
James was the primary director of this
thing he's not affiliated with the
University he doesn't have to answer to
anybody right Pete was affiliated with
it so they're getting him on that and
that he didn't go through the IRB and
get approval of course if you're gonna
tell people if you're gonna fake
something you can't tell him ahead of
time and then we're get a fake of course
as it's gonna get out and then the gig
is that the analogy I made the other day
was in 1971 a Stanford psychologist
named david rosenhan
clinical psychologist sent a bunch of
his graduate students into mental
hospitals all over the country and said
just tell him you're feeling kind of
blue and that you're you kind of hear
this inner voice and that it's just you
just kind of don't feel right and you
need some help so they did they all got
themselves checked in and then from
there on out they acted perfectly normal
and and then the goal was let's see how
long it takes you to get out and so it
was a study and how mental hospitals
treat people who are completely sane so
the title of his famous paper is called
being sane in insane places so first of
all the grad students report it's
incredibly boring so one of them would
sit there and write essays and take
notes and and so in the psychiatrist
evaluation of this patient is you know
patient exhibits excessive writing
behavior this is clearly an example of
his erupting bidonville libidinal
impulses from his childhood blah blah
blah another one was a painter so she's
doing paintings with landscapes and so
on oh patient you can see in the
paintings the erupting emotions and the
conflicts in her personality they're
just acting normal right so the point of
this hoax was that there's something
wrong with our mental institutions that
they can't tell the difference between a
sane and an insane person what are they
doing so of course the industry got
pretty upset about being hoaxed
so rosenhan came back and said okay then
the next year I'm gonna send in some
more let's see if you can find him and
he didn't send anybody oh wow so they're
like okay we think this guy is fake
again they couldn't tell the difference
in their own patients and no one was
even thinking so in a way this is kind
of what Pete and James and Helen did
it's like if they're sending these
papers out if you can't tell then what
are you doing in this field well people
are for whatever reason people are some
people I should say are drawn to these
nonsense ideas and one of the papers the
dog park paper got it got lauded for its
excellent scholarship yeah and it got
praised right it's it's one of the
weirder ones that they hoaxed I mean
because it's so obviously preposterous
when you're reading it you look at that
I think it was the fat body building one
that good I think it won an award just
the best paper we've ever had yeah and
really Payton and James and Helen they
are like professional scholars in the
grievant studies yeah because it's if
you read those things it's hard to write
like that I mean it takes it took them a
lot of
practice to get the jargon and the style
down well what do you think is the what
are the options for someone like Pete
because if he does get fired from the
University what what could he possibly
do I mean what Jordan has done is pretty
extraordinary he's essentially left
teaching at because of the controversies
that he went through he became famous he
became famous for doing podcasts and
writing things and and then his YouTube
videos are they're so insightful and and
wonderful that people just got drawn to
him and then they go to see him speak
live like they've made him into a
monster but by censoring him by
attacking him they've essentially turned
him into a global international star
that's right this is the bit one of the
best arguments against censorship is
it's gonna have the opposite effect you
wanted to if someone is of the quality
of Jordan right Peter says it's pretty
rare it's pretty rare I've talked to
Pete about this as well as Brett
Weinstein because he suffered the same
thing at Evergreen and he's out at least
he and his wife Heather got a payout so
they have a little cushion but this
model like you know say I'm on patreon
or Dave Rubin especially Jordan Peterson
very rare it's very rare to be able to
make a living as a public intellectual
on your own most public intellectuals
that are not in academia there with a
think tank
you know the Cato Institute or Reason
magazine or you know any of these
there's left wing right wing they're all
over the board you know it's possible
they could get jobs there where you
actually have a paycheck and those
groups are usually funded by wealthy
supporters that just we like the cause
and here's a pile of money not through
patreon it's possible that Pete and say
it Bret could do this but it's a tough
row to hoe I mean Jordan is very rare
I've you know watched this through my
whole life and you know this idea of
making $10,000 a talk $50,000 to talk
$100,000 a talked almost nobody gets
that kind of money right
you know maybe Neil deGrasse Tyson
Richard Dawkins maybe Carl Sagan back in
the day whatever the equivalent of that
would have been in the 80s but that's
pretty much it you know and there's
thousands of scientists that would love
to
like yeah I want to go that well they're
not entertaining the thing about Jordan
is he's very engaging yeah like he's in
his words are its it's not just they're
wise it's not just he's very articulate
there's something engaging about the
style and which he presents these things
it's it's very captivating it's very
charismatic I agree you know people
discount that or you know I know a lot
of scientists who were kind of jealous
of Neil deGrasse Tyson or say Bill Nye
it's like oh I could do that no I doubt
that you can I mean Neil and Bill are
really entertaining they are funny they
are engaging you can't take your eyes
off them they're so much fun to watch
well perfect most people are not like
that
Sean Carroll's brilliant he's really
brilliant and I'm glad that he's doing a
podcast now and do but when you listen
to him talk and you listen a Neil talk
Neil just has this booming presence and
this sense of drama and energy and
entertainment he knows how to be he he
knows how to deliver it in a way that
just catches you it's fun to listen to
yeah that's a lot you and I did a public
event in Australia and Melbourne area
Sydney and I unfortunately I went before
him and maybe that's actually good
and I'm a pretty good public speaker I
have a sense of you know my value as a
public speaker I'm pretty good but and I
never seen him speak and and I did my
talk like might it's pretty much like my
TED talk you can watch online it's
pretty entertaining okay so I get up and
I'm done I get a nice applause I'm
feeling pretty good and then Neil gets
up and he starts I'm like oh crap this
guy is fucking good you don't want to
know I'm so glad I already went you've
got so much energy yeah and yeah but he
also has I don't know that sort of
charisma connection with the audience
yeah it captures them and yeah I could
tell afterwards you know throngs of
people around him and yeah it's it's
there and not very many people have that
and I don't think it's something you can
just learn I think it's a temperament
you know you can hone it and refine it
but you can't just sort of naturally be
funny and engaging I think it's
personality that comes out you I think
you can certainly improve but I think
you're right I think whatever
personality you have like he has that
kind of engaging fun
personality and it's it translates very
well to doing those public speeches
since I was here a year ago I saw
Jordans event at in Thousand Oaks at the
Cavalier they're 2,000 seats sold out
standing room only
and it was good he was like different
than neal of course but just as engaging
yeah wasn't political a lot of people
there I you know recognized me and I
could see you know these aren't like
right-wing nuts these aren't young
mailed angry mails this isn't like this
at all and his message was you know
pretty straightforward get your life in
order you know this is the way life is
it's hard and he kind of went through
his thing and it's like alright that
makes sense and people loved it
very almost no politics in it and Dave
Rubin tells me he doesn't really get
political on stage so that's not the
motive and I think you know life is hard
enough for most people that they like
back to the self-help thing it's nice to
be reminded here are a few simple things
you could do ya get your life in order
it's like yeah yeah I kind of knew that
I'm gonna go back out and do that again
well his principles are very effective -
they're very straightforward less you
said but with a guy like people goes you
know to bring it back to that what what
could he do if he does get fired it's
gonna be very difficult for him to get a
job at another university right he's
obviously got roots in Portland he lives
there now it's the whole thing is he's
pretty liberal it's not like he's a
closeted conservative now in there after
him he's definitely more liberal than me
and I could tell even years ago that
they're gonna they're gonna go after him
I can tell mainly because he's so he
puts truth and free speech ahead of
political positions you might say I'm a
liberal and these are my political
decisions but more important to me is
the truth yes
okay well that's know as Jonathan make
point and points out and in his book
universities are now at this divide
between are we here for social justice
or are we here for truth and they're
having to make a decision and too many
of them are going for it we're here for
social justice well then just be honest
about it because that's not you can't
bury it well not just that I don't think
that's an effective way to pursue so
social justice if you're ignoring the
truth you'd undermine your message
because then it's it's not like it's
hidden somewhere it's not like people
can't read into it and see exactly what
you've said and how you supported
certain causes and denied the the
reality of others right but the the
Google memo thing yeah the Google memo
thing was a gigantic disaster yeah
because ideologically people jumped on a
side and argued and I heard the the CEO
of YouTube talk about how damaging it
was to women and like what are you
talking about like what are you saying
like What did he say he's just talking
about preferences that are described by
tests this is this has all been steered
studied papers on the differences
between the Preferences of males versus
females it's not it's not like a value
assessment at all in fact not only that
he put into his paper a page and a half
of recommendations of how to get certain
women interested in tech and perhaps you
could recruit certain women make it more
palatable or exciting to them and that's
not a it's not a sexist screen at all no
no no there's a online there's a really
good debate with Steve Steven Pinker and
in a feminist scholar at Harvard and
Steve has all his slides up there and he
just goes all through all the different
things that are in that Google memo this
is before the Google memo maybe James
Moore got some of that from Pinker's
lecture but it's it's it's pretty solid
stuff there was nothing in in
inflammatory about the debate this is
kind of normal scientific debates you
know here's a study that shows this well
but there's this other study and then
they go at it mm-hmm
okay and a story we're not saying women
are better men writer that doesn't have
it well unfortunately they could so here
if I was Pete's boss here's what I would
do because a lot of us have written
letters in support of Pete and you could
kind of see what's about to happen let's
just drop this whole thing let him keep
his job keep our mouth shut because this
is gonna backfire on us big time
like it did with evergreens to
university yeah yeah or with the Google
memo said yes that's what backfire in
the Google memo I mean we realize that
they've got a preposterous ideology over
there now
we know that maybe their stock price
hasn't kind
no I don't think it affected them very
much and and many more people support it
many more people who it's it's one of
those things where you hear one version
of it and that version sticks you know
it's like you know this is the the
version is he's a sexist
you know the sexist Google memo and then
that's all I need the Google memo is
very sexist it's very anti female and
the being there's many many people who
support the idea that something that was
sexist was removed from Google they've
made it a safer environment for women
right yep but did they I don't you know
I don't know what this doesn't seem like
they did it seems like they made it an
environment where you have to be careful
about facts right again it's not a value
assessment of women if women choose to
go into the medical fields more women or
physicians more women there's many
fields that like disproportionately
attract women that's not a negative
value assessment that's just people are
different well you know I don't I don't
want to do with certain people do
because I'm different than them I know
I'm not attracted to those fields right
it's fascinating to find out why people
are attracted and when you see that
there's actually there's just actual
statistics in terms of what fields men
are more attracted to or what fields
women are more attracted to now on the
other hand if there's a reason why women
aren't attracted those fields because
they get harassed when they go into them
well that should be demonstrated and
that's a obviously a bad thing and that
should be addressed yeah absolutely
that's not what he's talking about no
and James d'amour is like a very kind
soft-spoken you had one he's great yeah
he's a nice guy he's very introverted
he's a kind guy and he's on the spectrum
somewhere there was no way you'd look at
James the more I go there's the
patriarchy yeah he's a nice guy and they
said to him if you have any input on
these things and feel like you can help
please contribute and he's like okay so
he's that's what he is he's a he's a
fucking software engineer right he's
right he sat down and looked at all the
data and compiled it and he's saying
well actually it seems like this is the
reason why women are more attracted to
other jobs and this is the reason why
men are more attracted to the
fields and like sexist he's like no no
these are the studies this is what
you're asking me to do that the concern
that if the science doesn't come out a
certain way then people won't be treated
equally is a bad idea because then
you're gonna force the science to be
distorted if it doesn't match your
political ideology and that's so whether
trans is natural or how whatever
percentages or how old you have to be
before you get trans surgery and the
hormones or whatever oh that that's a
raging debate right now but under under
underline that debate is like we have to
make it come out in a way that trans
people are treated equally it's like no
no they should be treated equally anyway
yeah heartless of what the science says
right but that that's that's a problem
now now the problem for people I peed
and Brett like joining a think tank is
almost all these think tanks are
politically affiliated left or right you
have to that and therefore you have to
kind of tow the political line this is
our ideology in this think tank and
you're gonna write white papers and
op-eds and send them out with our kind
of slant the problem with that is well
but what if I disagree with this and
this and this here well then you can't
work here something like that so that's
the problem with those right but is not
the only option today when you see that
I mean I know he's not Jordan and you
know there's there's very few people
like Jordan but Sam Harris is also able
to do these speed he's very compelling
as well he's doing a lot of public
speeches and doing these big big events
there's more opportunity to do
alternative things now than have ever
been before and I would hope that that
becomes available to look I hope Pete
just keeps his job but if he can't keep
his job at Portland State I would hope
that some other Avenue some other some
other path is possible yep it might be
you know you never know but you know you
put a date on the calendar and you tell
the world did they come do they pay ten
bucks a ticket fifty bucks a ticket
hundred dollars a ticket not many people
can fill a 3 thousand seat auditorium or
a 500-seat Ram
well I think he could do is do a lecture
series on the grievant studies and have
the three of them on stage talk about
how silly these things were
if they could put that together as a
presentation yeah it'd really be funny
because there's some hilarious subjects
total over the others have read with
George Lindsay inand Bogosian we're in
here and we were talking about these
things we were crying laughing yeah it
was really really funny stuff yeah
that's actually probably the best path
for him yeah is to put together some
sort of a public show they should do a
book and then have a book a show yeah
and then maybe even a TV documentary
matter what they have somebody's making
the document that's a good start
yeah when I was in college at Pepperdine
G gordon liddy and Timothy Leary did a
stage show Wow and they were and they
were touring the country doing this yeah
it was at UCLA so I drove down and saw
it and it was so entertaining I mean gee
gordon liddy you know he's the g-man
there with his three-piece suit and he's
got his gun and Timothy Leary comes out
in his boat shoes and his flower shirt
and and but they had it kind of scripted
but it was well scripted in a way that
seemed kind of spontaneous but it was
really funny and educational about how
the government works and freedom versus
security and rights and I thought that
was brilliant and I think they did I
don't like a 50 City tour of that G
gordon Liddy was on fear factor he was
yeah oh I didn't know that's an
interesting guy he all his hand above a
flame no he didn't but we did hang him
by his ankles and slam him into a pool
like over and over and over again who's
I forget what the stunt was but I was
like Jesus this guy's old to be doing
this but he did some physical challenges
I remember thinking like this guy is
more fit and more active than most young
people and he was deep into his 60s at
the time yeah when we had him on Fear
Factory the only thing that screwed him
up was in the end the final stunt was a
driving stunt and it was at night and
unfortunately his eyes are not that good
and he just couldn't see well without
glasses so as he was driving the car he
slammed into something or something it
was what he got him there no it's all
right but chance to talk to him for a
few days he did hang out with them very
interesting guy yeah yeah strong mind
yep that's right he had a talk show back
in the 90s I was on when my first book
came out white people believe or think
and I talk about conspiracies there and
so he asked me well tell me about
conspiracies well you tell me about
conspiracy you know more than I do
he doesn't a real one yeah that is my
number one beef with conspiracy theories
is that when you you know some of them
that are so preposterous like whether
it's Flat Earth or what were the really
dumb ones there's a base on the opposite
side of the Moon and NASA knows about
all the aliens are living in New Mexico
lizard people the problem with those is
they undermine actual conspiracies when
you when you hear about preposterous
things and they they get fault they get
categorized as conspiracy theories then
when someone says well there's a
conspiracy about this well it's already
a tainted idea because the word
conspiracy is connected to nonsense
right because there's so many nonsense
conspiracy theories it's hard to
recognize Oh something like Enron that
really did happen yeah I think there is
the Northwoods Papers there's a bunch of
like legitimate conspiracies you like
Wow you know you found about the gulf of
tonkin you like well they they really
did that yeah that's right yeah I'm
writing a paper now and why people
believe conspiracies and so I go through
the whole list of all the psychological
things but I and what the whole second
half is because a lot of them are true
and yeah and there are reasons we should
be suspicious yeah just think of the the
WikiLeaks or the Panama papers you know
like the Panama papers here's all these
billionaires opening these shell
corporations keeping their money they're
not paying tax that's a conspiracy you
know by definition two or more people
meeting in secret to conspire to benefit
themselves that arms the public good or
other people this happens a lot in the
US government in corporations yeah
there's a reason we should be suspicious
there is but what is it about people
that want to look for a conspiracy in
everything even if it's you know that
they want to see they want to see
contrails behind jets as evidence of the
government spraying things in the sky to
control our minds right so the sort of
baloney detection tools are not too
finely tuned the problem is is that
we're the tendency is to look for some
global simple explanation for complex
systems so while we all kind of
recognize yes we know corporations cheat
and stock
traders trade with inside information
but that's kind of small and mundane
it's not very interesting global
domination of the world you know this is
who's doing that you know then it
becomes like a Dan Brown novel it's more
compelling as a narrative story about
how the world works is super simple
there's these twelve guys in London
called the Illuminati and they're
calling the shots and they're they're
you know they're controlled Hilda burger
the Bilderbergers the Rockefellers the
Rothschilds the naughty CFR a new world
order yeah George Soros is doing it he's
a part of it Oh totally
it's right here he's number 13 in the
Illuminati there's so many different
competing theories too so it's a couple
of criteria the more people that have to
be involved the less likely it is to be
true it was gordon Liddy that told me
this that you know it was it three
people can keep a secret if two of them
are dead you know people can't keep
their mouths shut
and also he would know because he worked
in government most people are pretty
incompetent so the idea that you could
orchestrate a thousand people to and
each of them is gonna go out and do this
one thing at nine o'clock Tuesday and
it's all gonna come together just
perfect impossible yeah and he should
know I mean they couldn't even break
into the watergate hotel room to get
these papers what's also who is getting
into government the first place are they
the geniuses of the world the heads of
their field or are they people that just
like decided to get into a job you know
and this is this is a good percentage of
the people that are involved in
government if those people know as well
these unexceptional folks that are just
like uninspired and they were also there
like the do they its they that's right
that's the air quotes they they they
really have the kind of wherewithal to
control the whole world
mind control that's my favorite right my
control psyops I mean this idea that you
know operatives went into the World
Trade Center buildings both of them two
of the most tightly controlled and
secure buildings in the world
and under the pretense of working on the
elevators managed to get into a break
through the drywall to get into the main
beams to wrap them up in explosive
devices this thermite and stuff and this
would do you know we know how long it
takes to demolish a stadium or a big
building you know that they work they're
there for week
for months preparing all the explosive
devices somehow they did this in the
World Trade Center building without
anyone noticing
not to mention all the people that
worked on this they never told their
spouses or friends or buddies or you
know what they were doing or they didn't
mention it to anybody they don't want to
go on CNN or 60 minutes ago I saw
something in here's what happened
nobody well anytime you have a gigantic
catastrophe like that just a gigantic
horrific event there's so many emotions
there's so much chaos there's so much
going on that you're gonna get a bunch
of really wacky eyewitness accounts
because people just aren't good at
remembering things when when they're
under extreme duress and it's just a
fact they hear things they remember
explosions they see things that might
aren't necessarily what was really in
front of them this is the human memory
is one of the most flawed ways of
gathering information right it's
terrible we have terrible memories right
and everything once something happens
then you back up and look for all the
sort of pregnant moments leading up to
it that otherwise would have been
unnoticeable like with the JFK
assassination there's a famous story
about the umbrella man yes okay so it's
a clear sunny day why does he have an
umbrella and for decades there you can
go online you can see these like
examples of how the umbrella could have
been turned into a rifle and then he
shot like that and and anyway somebody
finally tracked this guy down decades
later and he said I was out there
protesting Kennedy the umbrella was a
protest and that stems back to Neville
Chamberlain coming back after meeting
with Hitler before Hitler annexed I
think it was a sedating land and he came
back and said you know holding his
umbrella here I had you know here Hitler
signed this paper and promised he
wouldn't do anything more bad and so the
umbrella became a symbol of you know
sort of caving in to evil people or you
know what's the word for it
you know appeasement how convoluted do
you think people gonna get that and I
don't know he's out so this what he said
I had my umbrella too because I didn't
like what Kennedy was doing with Castro
and the Cubans okay so in other words
the umbrella meant nothing
terms of the assassination right and
this is true so like 9/11 oh there was
this little puff of smoke or somebody
found this passport over here this
little thing all those little things
really it's just randomness well the
other thing is the the people that want
to think that the windows blowing out
are indicative of some sort of expose
old demolition or the building's caving
in if the floor pan cam it pushes the
air out yeah yeah well it's there's
never been a controlled demolition that
went from the top down either like the
way they did it the Prince tram they all
go from the bottom up right yeah it's
the one that looks crazy is building
seven Tower seven that one looks crazy
it does but it burned for like eight
hours or something and yeah that one's
just slightly fuzzier but explosive
experts tell me that it's fully
explicable by burning all day well also
when you see the images of it collapsing
what you don't see is the interior
structure had collapsed previously and
there's video of that when you watch the
interior cave-in and that as this fire
was burning because apparently there was
obviously I don't know what really what
happened but there was diesel tanks
apparently in the basement and the
diesel fuel would burn incredibly hot
and the whole inside of it all the
structure had been completely weakened
and and then as it collapsed it just all
gave out it just happened to be a shit
design if I was a guy who owned that
building I would sue everybody I mean
that's the I mean he got his money back
I guess because there's some insurance
money but that what a terrible design
there was some issue with the legal
insurance payout to the owner of the
World Trade Center buildings whether
this was like one event or two events or
one building or two you know what is it
it was what the difference was between
like 8 billion and 16 billion dollar
payout or something Wow
how do they get people to get into that
new building I'd be like fuck you I'm
not I'm not renting an office in this
building this building they blew it up
in 93 they blew it up again in 2001 hey
get out of here with this shit I'm not
taking a chance of this new ass building
what is it the Freedom Tower something
yeah this is a big old bullseye yeah
yeah I haven't been in it yet I've been
around it
but something even that big well it's I
think it's just I think it's taller than
the it's not it's not it's not any big
as the original Towers right I think it
is his tall is it yeah I think I think
so yeah I thought it was shorter it's
definitely not as big as they want to do
by the Dubai ones like a half a mile
right isn't something crazy like that I
don't know how tall is the tallest
building it is I just went to there oh
the One World Trade Center leasing page
it says at 1776 feet One World Trade
Center is the tallest L AED Gold
certified building in the Western
Hemisphere that's not good no whatever
down America we need to be number one
number one we need to go straight to the
moon in the solar system yeah we need to
take an elevator right to the fucking
moon right outside of space is that
possible can they build a building
that's so high that it goes into space
one I don't think so because
structurally it wouldn't hold went up to
make it the shape of a pyramid well it's
like why aren't trees you know a
thousand feet tall because the material
would just collapse no no no I don't
think you could have it strong it'd have
to be so fat oh that's right Japan was
gonna build that space elevator oh look
at you got jack with the pop-ups Japan
takes tiny first steps towards space
elevator yeah you could fuck off I'm not
getting in that thing I would take a few
years before I'm willing to climb into
that sucker but so the other problem
with conspiracies just get back there
for a moment is the problem of anomalies
what do you do with anomalies this is
true in all science no theory explains
every single thing that's out there that
we want to study there's always going to
be some like quirky thing that the main
theory here that explains all these
things here it doesn't account for that
mm-hmm okay what did we do with that
well my joke is you assign it to a grad
student they let them figure it out but
what what Outsiders mistake is that well
my theory explains this little anomaly
so therefore it should replace this
theory and so people like Neil and Sean
Carroll Lawrence Krauss Michio Kaku has
like two web pages one he has a link on
his web page if you have an alternative
theory of physics go to this page so
they go there and as your theory has to
explain all of these things over here
that our theory currently explains and
your whatever your said anomaly is
and of course they can't so it's not
that scientists are dogmatically
closed-minded to the anomalies it's that
we can't explain everything and you
don't have to do anything with that just
just leave it there maybe eventually
they'll pile up and there'll be a new
theory like with Einstein's relativity
okay there's enough anomalies here like
the orbit of mercury and a few other
things and so we have to modify
Newtonian physics a little bit okay that
happens but for the most part like and
so conspiracies are filled with these
things like the moment something big
happens you go back and okay but there's
this weird thing here how do you explain
that I don't know we don't have to
explain everything do you know that
there's a growing movement that think
that the the space is fake space is fake
no I
this is he different than the Flat Earth
rules little hash tag space is fake hash
tag space is faith it's people that are
so fucking stupid the flat earthers
kicked him out oh my god for real flat
earthers kicked out the spacious fake
people space is fake is their the the
most skeptical so what would be the
upper atmosphere would be the edge it's
all bullshit it's all fake and it's tied
in some weird way to religion which is
really interesting because even the Flat
Earth people there's a tremendous amount
of them that are extremely religious and
they they talk about the firmament and
the Bible Bowl in the Bible and that
this is this is what's really going on
is that they're trying to keep us from
the knowledge that God has created this
place is a very special place right and
so by pretending that it's round they
somehow or another are controlling us
we're thinking that we're not
exceptional we're not lucky space is
fake they're using a video from Ryan
Gosling's
movie he just made about in the
Armstrong the first man in the moon yes
be like this is look look here's proof
take everything they're making a movie
because literally the way they made the
movie is that's evidence that it's fake
because he's wearing it I don't know if
maybe this person doesn't recognize that
as being Ryan Gosling right there mmm
it's got a NASA suit on maybe it's just
a troll account this is how NASA makes
everything this is the video I was
talking about guys now you know it's all
a big act
Flattr has to click on spaces fake
though I'm on I'm on the hole yeah but I
can click on it because there's a bunch
of other no I'm on that thread there's a
tremendous amount of people that
literally believe that space is not real
Google video of how Buzz Aldrin and how
he deals with the no Muniz that we never
went to the moon there's a video Buzz
Aldrin punching a guy yeah you see that
that guy I I had dinner with that guy
you did the guy he punched yeah I was a
firm believer that we never went to the
moon yeah you know this is what happened
I watched that Fox documentary yeah the
moon conspiracy theory did we go and I
was like holy shit because it was on
television I was and this was 96 97 I
remember I went to work and I told
everybody you got to see this
documentary it's crazy we never went to
the moon and I watched that one and I
watched this guy's what is his name bart
sibrel so I had dinner with him he
absolutely believes that we never went
to the moon
100% believes it I don't know if he
still believes it I think he's like a
cab driver or something now he got he
was involved in the news or there's no
local television or something like that
back where he's from then he released a
documentary called the fun a funny thing
happened on the way to the moon and in
his documentary one of the things he did
have is some really interesting footage
of the lunar module where it looks like
they're faking a shot of them being
really far out but then when they remove
this cover the covers from all the
windows that were inside the the lunar
not the lunar module what is the one
that the orbiter it really looks like
they're in low-earth orbit and this is
like the the main thing pointing to that
like they couldn't get out of low Earth
orbit mm-hmm then there was also the
fact that they lost all of the telemetry
data which was the binary you know the
ones and zeroes it showed the position
of the lunar module at every stage there
was a bunch of different things the fact
that no one wanted especially Neil
Armstrong he became a recluse never
wanted to talk about it you go and watch
the press conference the press
conference they look very shady look
earth it completely if it lessens
like that wellhe's Devery buddy he was a
drunk for a long time though he was he
was very depressed and had when became
an alcoholic after the moon landing and
the idea is that the in conspiracy
circles from talking as them the idea is
that he got over it after a while needed
to make a living now it talks about it
constantly but Neil Armstrong never did
the thing that's compelling is that
there was there were some there's some
faking going on if you look at Gemini
was a Gemini 15 Michael Collins there's
an image of Michael Collins when they
were testing some of the space walking
stuff and some of the some of the things
they would do to to to walk outside of a
spaceship they had them all strapped up
with cables and they're just
experimenting with these things they
took that photograph and then blacked
out the background probably some
overzealous PR agent hmm and we wondered
like in the cool is it right here so
what it is is like so the the first one
is clearly he's you know in a studio and
they're working on things and just
trying to understand how all this stuff
works and the second one they took the
exact same photo and just reversed it
and blacked out the background and they
but it's just that doesn't mean that
they didn't go to the moon that just
means that someone got a hold of some
photographs and faked it and it's way
more likely that there was more of that
going on then that people didn't
actually go to the moon right yeah yeah
yeah the thing about going to the moon
that's really interesting is if they can
go again and they do go again and they
find all that stuff they're you know
then everybody has to do oh yeah I guess
we're wrong this stuff is I mean there
is there's instruments on there that we
still monitor that the Apollo astronauts
left there
well no modern necessarily monitor we
shoot a laser up their head bounces off
yeah but you know a laser will also
bounce off the surface of the moon yeah
but I don't think like they're not as
precise right right yeah but the
Russians did that too with Lanka hood
one and two I believe they left solar or
or laser reflectors up there as well
with an unmanned mr. Japan has video
footage as Vlasov like last week yeah
first out of the dark silence that's all
fake too
because well space is fake dude there's
no space of course the moon's not even
what is the moon if space is fake
how the hell explain that the images
what's interesting is the images of the
Dark Side of the Moon look exactly like
even like the landing and the whole
setup looks very similar to the Apollo
missions so they would have to either be
in cahoots or have worked together with
now sound studio yeah to figure that use
the old stuff yeah look at it I mean
this is the footage I mean goddamn that
looks eerily similar to what you saw
when the Apollo astronauts were there I
think it is entirely possible that some
of the some of the practice film footage
of them you know on the surface or doing
things turned out to be pushed off as
actual footage of moon landings I think
there was no television well back then
there was no internet there was no VCRs
there was no ability to review things
and watch them over again they projected
something on television one time and
that was it
so when they've released pressed
releases and videos it's entirely
possible that some of those videos that
got through were actually just tests
it's entirely possible that there was
just like the Michael Collins photos
that there was some fuckery going on
you're dealing with so many human beings
right you're dealing with so many people
yeah see the an estimated 530 million
people watched Armstrong's televised
image and heard his voice described okay
what is that it was broadcasted live
like six hours that day yes yeah it was
actually broadcasted live on a
projection screen what they did it was
if they didn't get a straight feed they
were filming the the footage that was on
a projection screen that's how they did
it and there's some wonky shit that
looks like they fall down and then they
get pulled back up by wires when they're
on the surface of the Moon but again I
think how much of that is how much of
that is actual footage of them being on
the moon and how much that is just test
footage I mean I don't know I don't know
I'm not sure about that but I think also
I don't know jack-shit about space
travel right I don't know anything about
astrophysics I don't know anything
about like what it takes to land on the
moon and come back and whether or not
that and most of the people that talk
about this don't know that but
Mythbusters did a nice episode on did
you know did we fake going to the moon
and they showed a bunch of little things
for example on the moon with its gravity
when you go something like that into the
dust you know the particles come up and
they are back down in a certain way that
would be different than if you're on
earth so the gravity's different causes
the dust to settle reverently there was
a bunch of things like that that proves
we were there
well it certainly proved that what took
place took place in a vacuum yet not yet
and a gravitational pull the same as the
moon right you know only you've probably
seen the feather and the hammer drum
yeah but you know you can do that here
well yes in a vacuum yes that's right
yeah but but even a feather in a hammer
even if it's a depends upon what kind of
feather it is but a feather and a hammer
even if you just held them here and
dropped him on the ground they probably
would land at a very similar pace
there's a spoof video about that we
never went to the movie that a couple
British comedians that that pshew brick
thing is that with a Kubrick one no peel
what's their name I forget key and key
and peele yeah so the three of them are
talking and you know okay we're gonna
fake this whole thing and and and then
they're Troubleshooters she's like well
now you know people are gonna ask well
how did we go to the moon
and we're gonna have to you know build a
big rocket so we can say well we went in
that big rocket and they're like well
how much would it cost to build that big
rocket well it would be really expensive
I mean we might as well just go to the
moon and then they'd start talking about
the expenses well we only have to feed
three of them if we go to the moon but
if we shoot it as a shoot here in the
studio we have to have catering for
everybody to be super expensive and it
kind of goes on like that it's very
funny that is funny but the conspiracy
theorists would say well they couldn't
send someone to the moon so they had to
fake it that's why they haven't been
back they went from 1969 to 1973 so what
it was six successful missions seven
attempts Apollo 13 being the one that
didn't make it it's a it's a fun theory
and what happened with me is I got way
better at spotting bullshit and
learning critical thinking skills and
then paying attention to all sides I
mean the real issue with something like
that is if someone could prove
definitively beyond a shadow of a doubt
that not only is it impossible that no
one ever went to the moon absolutely
prove it
that would be giant yeah you mean really
would be yeah I mean it would be a huge
story but Ken is it even possible to do
that you know what the other analogy I
use like with the WikiLeaks is there of
all those tens of hundreds of thousands
of memos and papers and letters and
government documents there's not one
mention anywhere of 9/11 as an inside
job you know and we had to allocate
these funds to go to this construction
company who was then seen working at the
World Trade Center but nothing like that
so that in this case the absence of
evidence is evidence of absence
it didn't happen not an inside job and
this 9/11 one yeah and something like
that would be true for the moon-landing
I mean all those people that worked on
that not one of them saw anything and
wanted to write a book on 60 minutes the
idea would be that there was
compartmentalised
and that everyone like say if you're
working on the o-rings you don't have
access to the people are working on the
thrusters if you have access to this you
don't have access to that and that there
was only a very small group of people
that controlled everything also 1969 was
very different environment in terms of
like what you get away with and not get
away with what you could say it's just
it was really fun it was really fun to
believe that that fake going to the moon
I spent an inordinate amount of time
looking at it but I completely dropped
it I completely dropped it after I just
I paid attention to what I actually know
so but now you can kind of empathize
with those who do believe yeah oh yeah
but you want to hear a dumber one yeah
here's a dumber one for the longest time
like months I believed in the thing
called rods do you know the little
insects this yeah well they would it
this guy put out this duck that there
was these things flying so fast we
couldn't see them with the naked eye and
that they were like jellyfish-like
creatures that lived amongst us and they
had all this video footage of the
especially these people that were
jumping they were skydiving into this
enormous cave in Mexico and as their
skydiving into this cave you see those
things flying back and forth and I was
hook line and sinker I was like oh my
god these things were around us all the
time I was like going outside and
looking up trying to spot them
like imagine these beings that are
flying so fast we can't we can't see
them the only way you captured was on
camera and then a show called Monster
quest
cracked the riddle right they show that
it's a video artifact and then if you
have really high speed camera you just
see the insect right but if you have low
speed standard definition video cameras
it creates this artifact as these things
pass by very close to the lens at a high
rate of speed it along gates their video
signal and it makes them look like like
this jellyfish type of thing right but
it's really just a video artifact yeah
again it's a good example of anomalies
you know here's this weird video anomaly
what is it about just say I don't know
well if you don't know anything about
video it's it's way easier to say oh
that's the absence right yeah you know
take a camera put it outside you will
capture these things I'm amazing right
yeah that's right the other aspect with
conspiracy theories is cognitive
dissonance that is we want the size of
the event to be matched by a cause
that's equally of that size so the
analogy I use is you know the Holocaust
the worst genocide in human history
caused by the Nazis the worst regime
political regime in human history
there's a match there right but if you
say something like you know JFK the
leader of the free world brought down by
who Lee Harvey Oswald just some nobody
you know there's this mismatch or 9/11
this huge thing by 19 guys with box
cutters do you think that doesn't Harvey
Oswald acted alone yeah do usually what
makes you think that all of the evidence
and none of the evidence against anybody
else and all of the evidence against
particularly him Gerald Posner book case
closed and then the attorney what's his
name that was the men yeah he he has a
massive book where he lines up every
single one of the arguments by the
conspiracy for example conspiracists
make a big deal about
as well it got a job at the Book
Depository building which just happened
to be where the parade just happened to
be where the parade route was going so
you could have a clear shot
so it was Posner that tracked down when
the White House determined even when
Kennedy was going to Dallas let alone
what the parade route would be and
Oswell already had the job there that's
just chance so he knew in advance bro he
knew that you knew that do you think
it's possible that Oswald was in cahoots
no no no why do you think that what
about the Magic Bullet theory well
that's been settled by the fact that the
way it showed in the videos is that the
two seats are like this and that the
bullet has to do this well in fact the
seats were like that and that Connally
was well you have this in audio form
just when you're saying oh yeah so it's
like stadium seating right ones elevated
above the other that's right so the
bullet actually does when it passes
through the neck through Kennedy's neck
and then hits Connolly's shoulder it is
already moving down I think it hit his
wrist infraction interesting right um
the this has been tested and tested and
tested well sort of here's here's my
issue with it there's a couple it's just
one on the pro side the idea that
bullets will take a straight path is
ridiculous I've talked to hunters that
have shot animals in the front and had a
bullet come out the same side they shot
it it ricocheted off bones and and came
out like the front of the animal like
bullets take weird paths when they hit
things in particular so two arrows they
take and as a person who's well-versed
in firearms and shot the animals and
hunted you don't sometimes the bullet
goes straight through and sometimes it
hits bones and wacky things happen
things deflect but on the negative side
they always distort bullets always
distort particularly when they hit bone
what bothered me was that they found
that bullet in Connolly's gurney when
they brought him to the hospital they
just conveniently found this bullet AHA
we have it this is the bullet it matches
the the same rifle yeah and but it
wasn't pristine it was flattened barely
if you look at that bullet that bullet
it's nothing like a bullet that's it
when bullets hit bone they they mushroom
they balloon they Bend they distort
wildly they don't come out looking like
that they come out looking like that
when you shoot him into water or when
you shoot them into like feathers they
don't come out looking like that
under normal circumstances when they
shatter the bone of two different people
well do you know that for sure no I do
not know that for sure but I'm one thing
I do know a lot about is ID I know quite
a bit about what bullets look like when
they hit things I've looked into this
pretty extensively and I've talked to a
lot of people in law enforcement
military hunters and none of them
believe that that bullet hit bones
shattered bones and came out looking
like that is it possible that that
bullet was the only bullet ever in the
history of the world that did do that
yeah it might be okay so we're getting
kind of caught up in the weeds of the
anomalies what about this just a bullet
Oswald himself had attempted to
assassinate a general named Walker six
months before with his rifle and a
handgun and he went over to the house he
took a shot through the guy's when he
saw him at the desk took a shot missed
him he told his wife about it he's I'm a
revolutionary I'm trying to start so
don't get me don't get me wrong I'm not
saying that Oswald was innocent I'm not
I mean and I think it's very possible
that Oswald did shoot at the president
you might have even hit the president
it's also very possibly that some other
people were involved as well who I don't
know say this is the problem but wait a
minute why is it a problem if you guys
they are just because you don't know who
they are doesn't mean well they'd say
but why do we need to postulate extra
people because of all the gun shots that
happen in the short amount of time the
fact that the reason why they came up
with the theory of the magic bullet in
the first place because they had to
account for a bullet that hit a curb
underneath the overpass do you know that
right yeah okay there's three there's
there's okay if you know why they came
out with them yeah I've been there do
you know why they came up with short I
mean it's right there you could first
not miss the point well it's not that's
that's sort of true yeah it's not a far
shot and he was a pretty good marksman a
posner track down is we're not talking
about that we're talking about the
reason why they came up with the magic
bullet here in the first place do you
know why well I thought it was because
of the alignment of the seats no because
they had to attribute three shots they
had and one of the
they were they were thinking well the
all these wounds came from three bullets
but then they found a bullet that had
hit the curb on the underside the guy
checked into a hospital because he was
hit with a ricochet so there's a curb
that they proved was hit with a bullet
there was a bullet hole in the the
granite or whatever the fuck the curbs
made out of it hit this guy he went to
the hospital so he was hit with a
ricochet so they knew that one bullet
had not hit the president and so they
had to attribute all of these wounds to
one bullet now they had one bullet that
landed into his neck another bullet that
hit him in the head right and what's a
war how do these three bullets cause a
wound nicely as well then they came up
with the map there's a there's the
bullet look at that but you have to look
at this at the end it's flattened if you
look at it from the end no it's not look
at this under no circumstances do I feel
that this bullet could hit a wrist and
still not be deformed we proved that by
experiments as a chief consultant in
wound ballistics for the US Army who
supervised tests for the Warren
Commission here's the thing I don't I
don't necessarily think that there was
some grand conspiracy but I do think
it's entirely possible that someone took
that posthumously took that rifle and
wanted to pin it on Lee Harvey Oswald
definitively like there's people that do
things when they know someone's guilty
and they plant evidence mark Fuhrman did
that with OJ Simpson they found his
glove they planted evidence and there
was one of the reasons why o J got off
because there was some sort of
conspiring to make it look like he was
you know it was the evidence is a clear
path they could have just taken that
rifle and look could have been that our
Oswald did it alone it's possible but
also could have been that some other
people were shooting at him too it could
have been that they had decided to have
Oswald be a part of this and when Jack
Ruby ran in and shot him that doesn't
look a little suspicious that some guy
with ties to the mob gets right up to
this guy who just shot the president and
shoots him like why he's never shot
every before do it publicly
Posner talks about Ruby's character and
who he was major Kennedy supporter
running with some bad dudes some bad
hombres there in Texas and he was a gun
owner security wasn't anything like it
is now he really could just walk right
in right like he did it spots
but it's also possible that that guy
owed something to the mob and this is
what they told him to do he gonna get
rid of that guy no one's gonna care
they're gonna be happy fuck that guy
just shot the president it seems so it
seems like people want it to be one way
or the other and they want they want
this case closed
obviously that way I mean Lincoln was
assassinated by a conspiracy and that
was evident pretty quickly afterwards
right and they rounded him up you know
World War one was launched by a
conspiracy with the assassination of
Franz Ferdinand by a Serbian group of
called the black hand a group of
nationalists well your Vietnam or to the
Gulf of Tonkin incident that's a false
flag so these things do happen there are
no flags there are conspiracies to
assassinate foreign leaders you know hit
wrote this book on Kissinger as a war
criminal that you know all the
shenanigans we were doing in South
America with dictators there we're back
in this dictator because he's the son of
a bitch but he's our son of a bitch
versus this guy and we're gonna you know
sassanid Castro all the stuff that came
out that Johnson tried to cover up that
came out in the Pentagon Papers about
Kennedy plotting to have Castro
assassinated that's the kind of
conspiracies yeah this absolutely this
does happen the question is did it
happen in that particular case or this
one or a year and the evidence in my
opinion after reading particularly
Gerald depositors booked case closed its
there's a funny internet meme that went
around last week of a guy who dies goes
to heaven and God says you you've been
such a good fellow your whole life I'll
grant you one wish he can ask me
anything he said all right who killed
Kennedy mm-hmm and God said it was Lee
Harvey Oswald acting alone using his own
Carcano rifle and the guy goes this goes
higher up than I thought that's funny
man did you ever read David Lifton's
novel oh yeah best evidence that best
evidence I didn't read the whole book
you know when I was researching this
back in the 90s when after the Oliver
Stone film came out because after yeah
when that came out I thought man if only
half of this or 10% of this is true it's
definitely a conspiracy but then their
websites dedicated to everything he got
wrong
and well he made people up like the
general donald sutherland carry that guy
doesn't even exist he just used him as a
theatrical tool yeah very distorting
film and pipit film is such a powerful
medium yeah it's hard to overcome that
well that movie in particular me you got
Kevin Costner who's the good guy
everybody's in yeah I mean that is a cat
Lemmon and Walter Matthau too crazy
movie yeah and it really has you
believing that there's some sort of a
connection to the lab back into the left
people but here's the thing about that
though well I've looked at that over and
over again yes it is back into the left
but the spray kind of comes out the
front yeah it is yeah yeah it kind of
comes out the front and one thing that
does happen when people or things get
shot is you have nerves and nerves react
and things things do weird you know
those weird results in your body when if
you get hit by something it doesn't mean
well I get first hands come up oh he's
grabbing his neck apparently that was
the other thing was there was a
difference in the autopsy results from
Bethesda Maryland versus in Dallas Texas
Dallas Texas they attributed the throat
wound to a frontal shot that something
hit him in the front and then the
Bethesda Maryland they said that it was
a trach wound they they opened him up to
clear his breathing pathway and then the
conspiracy theorist would say why would
you clear the breathing pathway of a guy
who doesn't have a brain it's brain was
shot out of his head there's a lot of I
just don't like when people say they
know one way or another yeah Lee Harvey
Oswald acted alone huh fuck could you
know there was a bunch of a boat there
was also bullet fragments and Connolly's
wrists that weren't missing from the the
bullet itself the bullet itself whether
you think it's pristine or not it's
still it's not missing a lot of
fragments and there's fragments in
Connolly's body that they you could
detect on x-ray there's x-rays and his
wrists you could see the little pieces
now I don't know what the explanation
for exactly that's not that I don't know
I'm not the world's expert on this stuff
people want to clean it up that's what I
don't like they want to clean it up or
they want to muddy it up instead of like
looking at it a hundred percent
objectively they want one thing or
another I think it's entirely possible
that Lee Harvey Oswald
it's either to me they want to say this
is the these are the two narratives Lee
Harvey Oswald was a patsy he had nothing
to do with the government set him up or
he acted alone but why what couldn't he
have been evolved in it you know he
obviously was involved in some shady
characters the guy spent a ton of time
in Russia came back over here very
easily even though the Cold War was
going on there's a lot of weird stuff he
might have very well been some sort of a
government informant or working in
cahoots with the government if that's
the case and he did shoot Kennedy or
shoot at Kennedy who's to say that he
wasn't with other people and they killed
him because this guy was gonna go to
jail and he's gonna start talking when
they arrested him he said I'm a patsy
I'm just a patsy and then blam he's dead
nope we got him and that's it wrap it up
tight it wasn't until there's a pruder
film that people really started a
question and I think that was to invite
about ten years later right we've talked
about this you know the whole history
there's a pruder film how it was
released
yeah well the Rivera show right not
crazy right Dick Gregory comedian
brought the film footage to the Geraldo
Rivera show and showed it on television
magazine bought the rights today Life
magazine had the rights and didn't do
anything with it they they kept it for
more than a decade and Dick Gregory got
a hold of the actual film footage and
premiered it on the Geraldo Rivera show
I want to say it was like 1971 or 72 or
something like that so it was way way
after the assassination that the
American what was it 75 is 12 years oh
that's crazy
75 so all those years later and then
people got a chance to see the footage
and they were like wow this is not how
it was described to us at all and it
made people skeptical there's a good
Nova show on ballistics in the head and
testing the rifle and could you shoot
that many times and that many seconds
and so on and it's pretty good to me
it's pretty convincing the problem with
me is I know too much about what happens
when bullets hit bones I don't buy that
that was the bullet I do look I think
they could have just dropped that bullet
off doesn't mean that Lee Harvey Oswald
didn't do it the thing about that boat
though is it like there might be some
fucker involved and the David liftin
book was that was the book that got me
into conspiracies that fucking
but goddammit if I could go back and not
read it I bombed on stage because of
that book you did
yeah well it's my fault but I've read
that book the day I was performing and I
was freaking out because I was like 24
or something like that I was like oh
this is crazy
they killed the president you know I was
so naive and I was like really bummed
out when I went on stage and then I
realized like oh you can't like I didn't
know any better I've only been doing
comedy for three years he can't call
onstage bummed out you got to get your
head together you can't just say that
jokes and not have some emotional
attachment to him but that book
highlights what it was was lifting was a
bookkeeper and or an accountant I
believe and he was hired to do something
with the Warren Commission report and in
because he found some contradictions and
he went over the entire Warren
Commission report which is an enormous
enormous publication and he found all of
these problems all of these problems in
the Warren Commission report and all
these contradictions and it was his
determination after reading everything
and writing his book he thought that the
conclusion they made they made before
the fact and that they wrote all this
stuff to sort of there to back up their
conclusion that it wasn't based entirely
on an objective version of the facts and
of the event itself and his his take was
there was a conspiracy mmm-hmm well it's
launched a mini industry of books and
films man think about all the money
that's made off of the Kennedy
assassination go down the rabbit hole
with this stuff
Jesse Ventura version of it he believes
is the best I was on his conspiracy show
well yeah he's out there oh yeah he
believed it yeah he was like no one
could have made that shot they
definitely could have made that yeah
it's a rifle it's not that far and just
because someone gets lucky doesn't mean
they can't get lucky like people get
lucky all the time people flip a coin
and it lands on heads a mile away I mean
you know you could throw a coin you
could you could throw a coin out of a
helicopter you know you could say this
is gonna be heads when it lands and it
can be heads you can
it really is possible well this
assassination of Franz Ferdinand that
triggered the first world war this yes
okay
they they messed up I mean they had like
seven of them and they met in secret and
they got their weapons that morning and
so on it's a couple of them chickened
out somebody else got lost this is like
three of them there somebody threw a
hand-grenade mist rolled into the car
behind Franz Ferdinand and they got hurt
and went to the hospital and he's like
oh like this not giving my speech let's
go to the hospital and visit and see how
he's doing
so they doubled back like half an hour
later they double back and come back
down the same route and the guy who
admits he was just sitting there on the
curb is like oh fuck here they are BAM
yeah pure luck pure luck yeah yeah that
does happen yeah yeah I mean I think
that history turns more on that kind of
thing than on carefully orchestrated
perfectly executed plot sure it
certainly can but you know the idea that
I've always found a defense of the idea
that there's no way Oswald could have
hit him like that people say that like
there's no way there's no way like
you're out of your you never shot
anything right that's crazy I could make
that shot 100% yeah I look if you have a
rifle with a scope and a guy is a
hundred yards away you tell him you
can't shoot him right that's crazy time
that's crazy talk or the rifle was out
of luck that was the other thing they
said this the scope wasn't lined up
correctly here's the thing folks if you
have a rifle okay and this has happened
to me before and you drop the rifle the
scope gets damaged it gets moved it's
it's a very sensitive thing like when
you're talking about something that goes
any faster than the speed of sound
a bullet boom firing out of a rifle you
have that that is going incredibly fast
and to be able to get that reticle
exactly on where you think that bullets
gonna hit requires a lot of adjustments
when you go to the range they set up a
lead sled you put your rifle down on
this sled so you're not holding the
rifle and by the way your oz ball wasn't
holding it either the idea was that he
had it rested right which makes it much
more steady and much more easier to make
an accurate shot so you set up this
rifle on the lead sled and it's usually
a hundred yards or two hundred yards
where however far the distances to the
target you squeeze squeeze squeeze boom
the trigger goes
and you see that the bullet is low and
to the left by a couple inches you make
an adjustment on the scope if you drop
that rifle that scope gets knocked the
adjustments out the window already so
the idea that there's like a perfect
chain of command between Lee Harvey
Oswald pulling that trigger and that
scope never got rattled at all no but
the conspiracy theorists want you to
think there's no way who could have made
that shot that scope wasn't even lined
up good how the fuck do you know how do
you know you don't know like anybody who
knows anything about rifles knows
there's no way you could know because if
all you'd have to do is whack it here
I'm gonna bring you the rifle and just
bump it with your elbow funny knock it
into a wall when you're handing it to
someone and that scopes gonna be off
right so then you take it to a range
we're gonna prove definitively that he
could have never made this shot cuz this
scope is off boom look it's six inches
to the left
Wow case closed right no it's it's
there's no way people know whether or
not that scope was on when he was
pulling that trigger there's no way you
know when I went to Dealey Plaza
it's so big in our public imagination
it's not it's not you go there's like
this is it it's tiny it's so small and
then you go up to the museum and you're
on the sixth floor deposit the Book
Depository you look down they have an X
the two x's in the street and you think
that's just right there dude I can shoot
that with an arrow I bet you could I can
yeah I guarantee if you give me some
time you give me some time you put a
target right where that thing was Yeah
right where that Lincoln was yeah and
and you put me in that window I
guarantee you I hit that target with a
bow right with the idea that you
couldn't I'm holding it not no rest
right the idea that you couldn't do that
with a with a rifle right
you turned certainly could Lee Harvey
Oswald certainly could have done it he
certainly could have shot at Kennedy he
was a crazy fuck Lee Harvey Oswald was
involved in a lot of shady shit it
wasn't like he was just some dentist
somewhere we had and he scored the
second running depositor he scored the
second highest marksmanship there it is
right here to here dude that's so small
that's such a short distance then the
other question I had when you come in up
Houston Street and going left I always
wondered why he didn't shoot him there
when Kent the cars coming right at him
what was the outer window he was in the
window on the left-hand side
he was over there
no no no no it's uh it's over here yeah
it's right there that's where you shot
him from that window yeah yeah so I
always wondered why you didn't shoot him
when the car was coming right at him
that would have been a cleaner shot it
seems to me head-on you mean yeah yeah
maybe want to shoot him in the back of
the head does it have like a sniper hit
maybe a panic it's that upper right yeah
Wow yeah when we drove through it when a
last time I was not last time I was in
Dallas a couple times ago but when we
drove through it it's like it's eerie
Wow yeah it all happened right here I've
been twice there and there's always
conspiracy people walking around there
looking for tips I gave this guy 10
bucks ago all right give me the whole
story and it was very entertaining
here's the grassy knoll the pickety fans
yeah and another one about this mate he
took the manhole cover off because there
was somebody down here in the mantle Oh
lobbed up BAM shot him went back down
the middle favorite dumb conspiracy is
they believe that the driver turn around
shocked right that's the best right yeah
those are the fates paces fake people
you're always gonna get a bunch of
really wacky conspiracies whenever
anything happens in the news whatever it
is you know anything and every
particular ly if it's big and famous
again back to this cognitive dissonance
like princess die you know at cause of
death drunk driving speeding no seatbelt
you know tens of thousands of people
died I was drunk he was drunk yep the
driver of her car was true you know that
well drunk he was partially drunk he was
tipsy drunk I didn't know yeah that's
right so drunk driving speeding and she
wasn't wearing a seat belt why wasn't
she wearing a seat belt so I mean that's
yeah but but it doesn't feel like prints
someone like Princess Di's should die
the way tens of thousands of Americans
died in automobiles every year it seems
like there should be you know the mi5
and the royal family and the Arabs and
the Palestinians uh everybody was
involved well here's an example of an
absolute conspiracy that we know is was
a conspiracy
Jamal Khashoggi yes right yeah a good
example this kind of stuff does happen
this is a real conspiracy yeah that guy
was murdered he went to the Saudi
embassy in Turkey they had him set up
they flew in 15 people including a guy
who was a
he was a forensics expert and he was an
expert in forensic forensics evidence
and they think that he was there to make
sure that there was nothing left behind
they this is the the official story is
they strangled him caught him up yeah
and the there's even recordings apparent
that goes all the way to listen to the
top yeah yeah what is this Jamie that's
the last video I've seen him throw the
body double video and the Tim walking in
and then this last time he was seen yeah
he he entered into there and there was
15 different dudes that were waiting for
him they killed him chopped him up and
there's videos of the those guys leaving
with suitcases and they say that the
suitcases had his body in him yeah
chopped up yeah it's it's real but
that's also you know Saudi Arabia they
can get away with some pretty sketchy
shit and it seems like nothing's gonna
happen right like people few people got
fired well I have to say on this that
was Michael Moore's film on 9/11 he made
the point I was the first I'd seen make
the point that the Saudi Arabia family
got out of the United States on 9/12
when all flights were cancelled yes and
that Bush let them you know and now here
we see that you know Trump doesn't want
to condemn the Saudis because they're
our allies okay so there's a bunch of
shit in there it goes all the way back
to 9/11 you know and and we know the
Saudis support a bankrolled most of the
19 hijackers yeah so that's the kind of
conspiracy that we should be paying
attention yes not that Bush was involved
and made it happen in the secret you
know this is the kind of shit that
really happens in politics yeah you know
people are are banking each other so we
have to be nice to each other and you
know overlook it you know like when
Trump said you know Putin uh you know
you know Putin murders people oh well
everybody does it yeah what yeah well we
do some terrible things too yeah yeah
and the end that's true well it is true
in in you know I guess he's got a point
but the yeah it's it's just so much
there's so much money there's so much
money involved with Saudi Arabia and
this article I was writing a
sited criminologists Manuel Eisner in a
study of 1500 monarchs in 45 monarchies
across Europe between AD six hundred and
eighteen hundred found that about 15% of
them 227 were assassinated
of course it's planning to homicide rate
of about a thousand per hundred thousand
ruler years ten times the background
rate so in other words assassinations in
history are pretty common this is how
power often changes hands before liberal
democracy spread and after 1970s this
was not uncommon you know so we
shouldn't be surprised that people
believe this kind of stuff because you
know there's some truth to that
the Kishori thing is unsettling to folks
because what he was killed for they
think well there's there's two different
versions of it right they're just
kidding film he was killed for
criticizing the Saudi Arabian government
but he was also there's also that he was
criticized because he was aware or he
was killed rather because he was aware
of some spy software that's being
utilized and that if he wrote a story
about this by software being utilized by
the Saudi Arabian government that it
would be a huge disaster hmm could be
yeah yeah I mean there's probably more
we I'm sure there's a lot we don't know
so here's my my concession to conspiracy
theories when you get elected president
they take you in the back room they go
okay here's what's actually going on
right oh shit I can't close Gitmo I
can't close Gitmo because no one will
take those bad dudes okay but but I'm
gonna pull the troops out of Afghanistan
pull the troops out of Afghanistan if we
do that here's what happens oh shit but
we don't know this we know this and I
think that something like that does go
on maybe not quite so secretly but just
that you know you and I don't need to
know these things well I need to know
basis and and the President does when
they're candidates they say oh whatever
they say to get elected and then they
get in there and go okay I didn't
realize that the Saudis are doing this
and this and this and we need them for
these six reasons over here okay they
did this bad thing and if we condemn
them then they're not going to do these
things over here so I better lay off the
condemnation that kind of stuff I
suspect does happen oh yeah I think
you're correct I think I suspect the
same thing no but what's fascinating to
me about Trump is that he doesn't seem
to care at all about violating protocol
or about releasing information that he
probably should I mean he's already
accidentally released top-secret
information I would just feel like if he
knew for sure some stuff like he would
be the last guy you would want to trust
with that right I know but you know this
thing about him wanting to pull the
troops out of Syria there's got to be
another story behind there like you know
Putin maybe said look we got to take
care of our business here in Syria we're
gonna take care of Americans over here
and you get your Trump Tower and Red
Square when when I'm gone
whatever you know there's some kind that
kind of stuff is the sort of thing that
will come out in a equivalent of a
WikiLeaks in 20 years we'll go oh like
the Gulf of Tonkin oh okay that's what
happens what do you think in conspiracy
theory that says that Trump has there's
some video of Trump getting peed on
or that was published and like some
serious newspapers yeah yeah there's so
much of the stuff Atticus can't keep
track of it I mean don't you think with
him no to there like more than willing
to put stuff like that out there because
they don't like him so they'll pull that
trigger a little bit quicker maybe yeah
but you know during the Bush
administration people hated george w
bush you think they hate Trump no I
think now they're going oh we would love
to have george w bush back yeah i feel
like they just thought he was
incompetent directly putin does not deny
possessing compromising material on
trump yeah but but what did he actually
say no no yes this is about the p tape
says Matthew was a Iglesias box
what is it from follow it's Vox
that doesn't mean anything you probably
didn't understand what they're saying
speaks Russian right I don't know do you
find it odd that the these conspiracies
not only the it seems like it's a part
of our our mind the way our brains work
our collective mindset is that we tend
to be attracted to conspiracies and we
tend to hope that those are true more
than we hope a simple explanation exists
yeah it well it depends it depends on
who your group is and do they have power
or not so we know from studies that
people that are out of power tend to
concoct conspiracy theories about those
in power yes the moment they get
empowered they drop the conspiracy
theories and the ones that are out so
you're gonna get more conspiracy
theories about Republicans when the
Democrats are out of power from
left-leaning people and vice versa
you know it blacks are more likely to
think that the CIA planted crack cocaine
in the inner cities and and those sorts
of things
conservatives are more likely to fear
big government conspiracies liberals are
more likely to fear big corporate
conspiracies there may be elements of
truth and all of these things but the
ones you're latch on to have to do with
how much power you perceive the other
guy has that you don't have and
therefore they must be doing something
to get that that I can't do I'm on the
outside and so we tend to miss perceive
how much control and power people really
have in positions of power CEOs
politicians and so on usually they don't
have as much control and power as we
think they do and people that get in
there they go oh I can't I can't I don't
have this kind of control or power I
thought I would when I got here but
obviously I don't it's too many things
that have to check some balances that
are in place so oh you can't do these
things on your own you really need a
group of people to conspire along with
you so you mean to have these frank
discussions with some sort of an
understanding that you have to keep this
a secret right more yeah in other words
like twelve guys in London are going to
control the world's economy how are they
going to do that
I mean who do you call the start a war
and cause inflation or whatever more
likely it's like in the Cuban Missile
Crisis where you have jockeying back and
forth back and forth back and forth okay
look we're gonna give you the missiles
in Turkey if you take the missiles out
of Cuba and it just ends up being some
boring little thing that dissolves the
tension that could have been world war
three it's like wow just this little
thing yeah so much of history turns on
those little so in a way we got lucky
there but not just look I mean Kennedy
and Khrushchev both wanted to untie the
knot you know Khrushchev sent a memo to
Kennedy saying you know you have pulled
on this rope and I have pulled on this
rope and I don't know if either of us
can untie it but here's an idea that's
when he floated that you take the
missiles out of Turkey
and and I was just watching this Netflix
documentary on this and there was a
thing about Castro sant memo to
Khrushchev saying light them up you know
comrade we are ready to die for the
cause you can just nuke all of Cuba and
nuke America I don't care we're ready to
die and Khrushchev yeah a crucifix was
like holy fuck this guy's a madman we're
not gonna do that
and so that Castro he's ready to nuke
Cuba yeah Jesus where's that memo they
they talked about this in this duct no
is it yeah anyway this was during the
times of Operation Northwoods when they
were gonna blow up a drone jetliner and
blame it on the Cubans they armed Cuban
friendlies to attack Guantanamo Bay and
use it as a motivation to get us into
war the Castro was a fascinating case
because that guy kept that place 90
miles away from Miami he kept that place
running on his own until he died it was
crazy it really is crazy that he was
able to pull that off well he had a lot
of support economic support from Russia
otherwise and they would not have
succeeded but still it's so nuts that he
was so close he was running a military
dictatorship essentially a boat ride
away yeah I was just in Moscow a few
months ago for a conference since I went
to visit their World War two museum what
we would call the world
to museum its massive building they and
they call it the Great Patriotic War
Museum uh and the whole thing is kind of
a tribute to Russia liberated Europe
from the Nazis watts yep this is current
oh yeah yeah I mean this is their from
their perspective they lost 27 million
people you Americans you know 500,000
nothing right and from their perspective
you've go to Berlin right next to the
victory Museum look at that yeah it's
called the victory music well there it
is the museum of the great patriotic war
is a History Museum located in Moscow
yeah and they have this room with these
chains hanging down with little crystal
balls at the end of them that represent
the 27 million people and it's it's it's
very moving go back to that that right
there it's good look how beautiful no
place yes it's quite stunning and each
of those rooms that you go into it's
like a diorama of some battle that they
fought Wow you know so yeah we I think
you know it's good for us to know this
to recognize from their perspective they
they they won the war not the British
marentina French we did a little bit
from their perspective but the fact that
they lost so many people 27 million
what's going on with that picture yeah I
don't stop looking at members represent
that's a weird picture I I mean they
have a point in terms of their
contribution in terms of the loss of
lives yeah that's I mean every country
has its perspectives in that regard
which is why it's good to know some
history so you know what other people
are thinking and what they went through
well it's again though it's what very
similar to what we were talking about
earlier in terms of the distribution of
the news it would be very nice if there
was one yeah absolute news source you
can trust with no slant on it whatsoever
when it comes to the distribution of
history it's of course always written in
a way that favors the people that are
writing it yeah I was just talking to
Rachel Kleinfeld you know I have a
podcast now this a few months about six
months now science salon podcast yeah
well it's it's sort of an extension of
our old couch
lecture series but instead of lectures
we're now doing dialogue without also
people can cite science salon science
salon yep so just kept it calm it's okay
so I'm interviewing a dialoguing with
Rachel Kleinfeld she has a new book
called a savage order and it's about
failed States and what happens to them
and why corruption spreads so quickly
and then how to basically squelch that
so like after the Soviet Union fell
apart you know all these mobs basically
took over and it's like the Russian
mafia Republic of Georgia fell apart
fairly quickly and then you know so one
of the reasons people apparently like
Putin is he kind of came in and
squelched all that and and maybe one of
his points of popularity is that at
least we have one bad guy who's kind of
keeping order instead of all these
little mafioso type gangs and and I said
so if he actually held an election he
might win it's like hard to say because
we don't have a good source of what the
Russian people really like right we have
the Russian media saying the Russian
people love Putin okay yeah right
did we know that's an accurate survey it
is pretty astonishing what kind of a
control he has over that country that oh
yeah it's it's powerful I went to visit
I saw Lenin's tomb and the mausoleum
there he's still still he's looking
pretty waxy to me oh that's right you
can actually see his body well what's
left see his body yeah yeah what's left
of it yet another Netflix series I just
binge watched Trotsky it's called
Trotsky and this is a Russian made film
it's a drama and it's really good and it
really shows it's interesting because he
Trotsky was on the outs all the way
until this recently you know because
Stalin had him assassinated and then
Stalin had him literally airbrushed out
of photographs because for a while it
was Lana and Stalin and and and Trotsky
is the big three and then when Lenin had
a stroke it was like okay so Stalin and
Trotsky who's going to take over when
the boss is gone and so they kind of
showed how that happened and again
conspiracy it's all conspiracy no one
knows what you know really going on here
you've been in this business this
debunking can spits conspiracies and the
skeptic business for quite a long time
you feel like there is any improvement
in the critical thinking skills of
people and their ability to recognize
the policies and the the flaws and the
way they're approaching these things
hard to say
confirmation bias they're less of that
now than before I like to think we're
having an influence there is some
studies that show you know fewer people
believe in these pseudo Sciences and
quackery and paranormal but it's not the
declines are not that dramatic over say
the last few decades
there are deprogramming bias
deprogramming studies and programs in
which you can teach people about the
confirmation bias in the nine side
bodies and so on the problem with those
is they work really well to teach people
how to spot the biases and other people
they're really good at that but then you
say well what about you oh you know
fortunately I'm above all that so
there's a Blinds that's called the blind
spot bias you can't see your own bias
but you can see it in other people so
the reason these studies are done is
because like we have a problem with
climate change we have climate deniers
how do we get people who don't know
anything about it to shift from I'm a
skeptic too I'm a believer and it show
it turns out just piling on facts isn't
gonna do it no people's identity are
trapped in their initial their initial
statements if they think that 9/11 was a
conspiracy their their identity is
somehow inexorably connected to this
conspiracy being a fact yeah and then
you argue it as if you're arguing your
own value it's it's a really weird thing
that happens when people start talking
about ideas if the you you you've very
rarely find people that are disconnected
from their ideas to the point where you
could point out that something's
incorrect and they go up thank you I
didn't know that like most people aren't
that confident no or aren't they just
look it at the wrong it feels like a
personal attack on them also as if it's
a belief or claim or theory or whatever
affiliated with a political or moral or
religious value the people autocorrect
in their brains when they hear global
warming they hear liberalism ISM and
capitalism control of the market big
government and I'm against those things
so that global warming thing's gotta be
faults yeah that is one of the weirder
aspects of tribal thinking right the
pink pink makes the point that Al Gore's
film An Inconvenient Truth was a
terrible thing for the environmental
movement because it associated global
climate change with liberalism the
Democrats and all that it's like okay I
see what's going on it's that Al Gore
left liberal stuff yeah that's right
yeah well in in a sense he's right and
then in another sense it was also the
amount of profit that Al Gore made both
from that and from some other endeavors
that he has like they said that he's one
of the first green billionaires right so
God Jesus what's his carbon footprint
around a private jet everywhere he's
talking about the world yeah it's like
it's screwy yeah it's but that's you
know there's everything's messy people
are messy right so we're very tribal we
commit to political parties or religious
beliefs and we stick by them pretty
closely pretty tightly you know and the
facts get filtered through those
understandably you know what to do about
it you know that's that's under debate
it's the same thing with the atheist
debating how do we get people to leave
religion well there's a hundred ways you
know Leah Remini doing her show on
Scientology anyone watching that would
think okay I'm not joining this church
and and so if you had a thousand of
those four bad beliefs hopefully we see
that shift I would love it if there was
some sort of a secular option a
community-driven ethics driven morality
driven friendship driven thing where
people could go and instead worship
maybe just appreciate life and sort of
confirmed some of the best aspects of
community and culture and who we are and
do it in a place where it makes you
really conscious of it so because I
think there's there's some some real
benefit to people going to church and
everyone in the community dresses up
nice and you sort of agreeing hey we're
committed to being civil into being kind
into worshiping and that this belief in
a higher power
or if it it empowers people to think
this way and it gives people a
motivation to be kind and it would be
nice if there was a secular option like
that that is decentralized it's not run
by one person winds up banging
everybody's wife and taking all the
money because that's what happens there
always happens you can set your clock
like these guys it's unbelievable well
Joe the humanist movement is something
like that what is this I'm not aware the
secular humanists are just humanists
there's groups all over the world have
churches well they have meeting places
kind of Kelton churches more broadly the
kind of Universalist Unitarian Church is
a church and it's a religion but they're
pretty secular they're like secular Jews
you know they believe in the culture and
the and the ceremony and the rituals
I've been to a number of these humanist
and Universalist Unitarian churches
ceremonies they like candles they sing
hymns to Newton they have testimonials
about how I lost my religion and to me I
didn't really like it that much because
I was never crazy about Church in the
first place but a lot of people clearly
get value out of this idiots and
humanists that don't believe in God the
gathering together once a week and being
with fellow like-minded people that has
a lot of psychological value it connects
people that's one of the great things
about community centers in neighborhoods
you know it just connects people and
like hey we're all in this together
alright Bob see you tomorrow bye Mary
you know the social capital there's
something there's something great about
that was Church that mean I was having
this conversation with Bill burr about
this recently we were talking about it
and he's like I don't I don't really
want to go to church but I think there's
some there's something to that to go
into a place and and putting your faith
in you know all the people around you
and the the the higher values and morals
and ethics that you're all agreeing
that's right yep you know it's back to
the self-help thing it's sort of a
reminder every week be a good person
don't forget to donate to charity here's
some local charities here yeah these are
our causes be a good you know be good be
nice to your spouse and your children is
on and so people kind of leave a little
charged up for the week on Sunday back
to Monday and that's probably a draw
big Tony Robbins things too all right
there's a community of us together we're
all trying to do better we're all trying
to better ourselves and optimize our
lives that's right there's nothing wrong
with the same thing back to Jordan
Peterson that's the threat he's given a
message people like to hear that yeah
and okay so what what why is that bad
that's not bad yeah
now of course people like Richard
Dawkins will point out yeah but but can
we decouple all the supernatural
nonsense yeah from the social community
yes we can't okay but don't you think
that there's less there's less of an
acceptance to the supernatural nonsense
than there was yeah app and it seems to
be a trend those numbers are getting
better secularism yeah the number of the
percentage of nuns people took the box
for no religious affiliation that used
to be in the single digits it's now 25%
of all Americans 33% of Millennials
those born after 1991 and it looks like
probably with i Jenner's can be closer
to 50% people born after 1995 now
they're not necessarily atheist agnostic
skeptics but they don't affiliate with
any religion and that's good because in
the sense that you know it's it's
religious behavior that causes some of
these social problems that we encounter
II now with Islam for example you know
so if somebody privately believes in God
or whatever and they don't act on it
okay I guess I don't care in that sense
it's the acting on your beliefs that
causes the problem well when you enforce
those beliefs on other people and that's
right so when it spills over to politics
education science education particularly
well that's one of the real problems
they're having in Europe when they're
dealing with people that are coming over
from other countries where they have a
different set of values and they're
seeing women in skirts and they're
calling them whores and England right
right different set of rules over here
you know in California you won't believe
it and they think that God has you know
God has dictated these rules in their
eyes they're seeing some horrible sin
they're seeing the the decay of the
moral fiber the moral fiber of their
environment these are primitive beliefs
having to do with men wanting to control
women's reproductive rights
there's evolutionary reasons for this
yet Brett and Heather on here and they
guess playing that beautifully but we
have to overcome that
because it's an evolved tendency for men
to want to control women's reproduction
it doesn't mean we should do that it's
the opposite yeah and so I make the case
in one of my scientific American columns
that on abortion that you know if you if
our mutual goal between pro-lifers and
pro-choicers is to reduce the amount of
abortions we we know the formula educate
women empower women birth control birth
control access to birth control and so
on it just happens out automatically the
pregnancy rates go down there for
abortion rates are gonna go down we know
how this to do this but still people the
pro-lifers you know just glom on but
it's a moral issue okay take the moral
out of it I understand it's a human life
or potential human or whatever you want
to argue I get on that take that out
let's just work to the common goal of
reducing the number of unwanted
pregnancies my favorite one that still
exists is abstinence the idea that
they're trying to push this on these
essentially when you especially be
talking about really young people that
are just getting horny for the first
time yeah I mean they're on drugs
they're on a horse they know what yeah
why are you talking about you take the
average 17 18 year-old kids and you try
to they get them together and no one's
in the room and they're raging yeah
raging with hormones and they're both
supposed to keep their clothes on like
look man it's not going to happen it's
not going to happen you got to let that
go and this idea that you're gonna tell
them that God wants them to be abstinent
like are you sure why did he give us
these goddamn hormones what's happening
here
there's Studies on how effective
abstinence only programs or chastity
pledges and these sorts of things how
effective not only are they not
effective they're worse because then
people go into like a date or something
unprepared and then the hormones kick in
you know and they start going at it and
then they don't have protection well
there's also the thing where Catholic
schools like when I was a kid we always
knew and like this is we're talking
about in the 80s everyone knew that
girls who went to all-girls Catholic
schools were freaks because they were
never around boys for because they were
all in just a school with girls what
they and their ever
suppression suppression suppress
suppress they just can't wait they get
out there like they find a boy and they
go crazy like everybody knew it I mean
this is not something that I knew as a
comedian or as a person who studies
culture there's something I knew is a 14
year old right everyone knew that girls
who went to all school all-girl Catholic
schools were freaks right it's just as
the opposite intended effect there was a
study a British study I found that found
some small print it was like one and a
half percent or whatever of ten thousand
women who said they got pregnant without
having sex oh that's right that's
hilarious yeah or they do everything but
or they have anal or whatever and say
well we didn't actually have sex right
like Clinton you know well what do you
mean by sex and right have and sexual
relations yeah I did not have sexual
relations to that woman
visual land yeah sex is intercourse
penis vagina that's it yeah everything
else is just hanging out right yep
well it's the the need for belief
systems is it's so I mean it helps
people to have belief systems if they're
positive and they're objective and
they're well reasoned and they're you
know these are you know backed by facts
and knowledge it helps but the need for
belief systems is so strong that we'll
take a belief system that's wonky it's
because we have a desire yep you have
the brain abhors a vacuum of belief it's
the way I put it in and something's
going to be in there so let's try to put
in those brains rational science-based
values and we have those I mean humanist
values that you know the humanist
movement is now about a cent almost a
century old
you know universal human rights the the
universal human rights declaration just
celebrated its fiftieth anniversary you
can get diverse people to agree you
don't have to have the correct
philosophical arguments to get there but
you know just everybody should be
treated equally under the law can we at
least agree on that yes okay I mean if
you start off with Pinker makes this
point
now if you start off with Jesus died for
our sins that's the most important value
value to me you're not gonna get
agreement a room full of you know you
end diversity you got to start with
something super basic in general
everybody's is deserves equal rights
okay yeah and then you start to build
from there and we could do that do you
find you've been in this for a long time
and you've done some really valuable
work it's been it's it's so nice that
there's someone like you that really has
dedicated their life to really
illuminating truth exposing all the
flaws and people's thinking do you feel
like the reception of this is you you're
it's easier now or it's there's momentum
behind this kind of thinking I do yeah
for sure it's it's more open part of my
I have a distorted view I'm from
California a group of Southern
California we're pretty liberal society
here so I'm empathetic to people to
write me from Oklahoma Arkansas and I'm
in this little town everybody the only
question is which Christian church do
you go to you know the Baptist or the
Presbyterians and you know everyone in
his family everyone at work is a
believer and he's an atheist okay so I
haven't faced anything like that you
know and I'm a middle-aged white guy you
know I don't I do have white privileges
I know and so I am sympathetic to others
but I do think across the board things
are more tolerant you know we know this
from Studies on interracial marriage for
example that's not even an issue anymore
the gay rights thing has changed very
rapidly I mean that was stunning how
quickly social attitudes changed after
the well we have to remember in 2013
Hillary Clinton was still saying that
she didn't believe in gay marriage
because that was a political position
that's right now Obama in 2011 although
you never know when a politician says
something of course but now so I predict
you know like the gay marriage thing
this no one will be talking about in
another year or two yeah change so
quickly and so across the board the
acceptance that now of atheists
humanists secular agnostics whatever has
become much much better in most places
there's still certain course of Islamic
countries where not only would they burn
me and you they burned Catholics because
they picked the wrong religion so
there's still that but
wonder if there's some improvement there
in those countries because the internet
with younger people when they're being
exposed to these new ideas yeah maybe
I'm not sure on that data last time I
saw a big poll was on how supportive you
would be of Sharia law and these were
pretty scary like a third to a half of
Muslims living in Muslim countries said
they would support Sharia law and if you
look at Sharia law as you know it's it's
pretty scary very anti-democratic
illiberal attitudes about rights and
women and things like that so there I
think the prediction would be yes
Millennials and I Jenners when they get
into power then maybe they not just
political power but like controlling
talk shows radio shows TV show scripts
things like that most I think most moral
change happens in people's minds from
inculcating it from culture pop culture
of just how you talk about other people
like if you Dawkins makes this point
that you can tell pretty much down to
the decade when a book was written by
the way they talk about when like a
novel talk about women or blacks or
whatever going back say a century you
could say well that was 1930s the way
they're talking about Jews you know and
that's the kind of thing that shifts
very slowly you hardly notice it but
from people like you comedians you tell
certain jokes or you say certain things
and it becomes more acceptable scripts
for television shows and films and all
of us kind of watch it and absorb it and
just think yeah you know you we
shouldn't be saying those kinds of
things about women and Jews and blacks
or whatever you stop doing that not
consciously you just kind of soak it in
so I think you still need laws we have
to sometimes change the law and just say
okay it's now illegal to discriminate
against Jews or whatever you can't do
that now people may still want to do
that how do we change their thinking
well if that's the bottom of thing that
takes course of decades or maybe a
century and it takes generations
sometimes because the new young kids
have to see the flaws and the way their
parents are thinking and and and have
access to this information and form
their own opinions on these things
hopefully baek's based on objective
reasoning and reality and and all the
awesome stuff that's available now my
stepdad was in
the Pacific War and the way he talked
about Japanese you know when I was a kid
in the sixties like oh and by the time I
became an adult I'm like dad you don't
don't say the stuff don't say it out
loud we think about 1947 to 1960 that's
a tiny period of time it's so short yeah
I mean that's really like you know we're
talking about the early 2000s right the
magic world war two happened during the
early 2000 right yeah yeah so it's hard
to remember it's it's hard to put it
into perspective I think pop culture the
media social media and so on is is going
to accelerate moral progress it'll
happen faster like it happened faster
for women than it did for blacks it
happened faster for gays and it did for
women you know maybe whatever's next
animal rights or you know something like
this will accelerate even more maybe
trans rights or somebody think about the
pushback against this idea that we are
living in the safest time ever and that
there is an absolute trend like Pinker
gets criticized about this where people
say no the world is still not safe for
these people for this for this group for
that group and for you saying that the
world it just shows your white privilege
and that you this white male perspective
and I'm on board with Steve across the
board on these things he's got the data
it depends on the question you're asking
you know it's like if you say yeah but
my life is not better okay we're not
talking about your life the question is
is society getting better okay of course
there's ups and downs in this group is
doing better than that group and yes
there's still some racial discrimination
and yes there's still clearly
anti-semites as we've seen recently but
across the board if you take like the
last 200 years which direction of the
trend lines going they're all going in
the right direction
so again it's scale the question is
what's the scale we're talking about so
it's it's a little unfair to Pinker to
say well you're blind to that thing over
he's not talking about that one thing
there he's talking about just across the
board yeah I agree
listen man thanks for everything thanks
for everything you do you want to know
your articles and books and thanks for
coming on here and please let people
know your podcast once again is called
skeptics along yeah science signs along
sorry science along you just go to
skeptic comm and it's posted there and
yeah so skeptic is still
and social media at Michael Shermer is
my twitter feed you have Instagram as
well I don't I don't do that how dare
you that's Michael Shermer one Oh
do you have an idea I do I'm gonna start
posting as of today okay oh yeah take a
photo I always click on yours because
you always have interesting photographs
from wherever you're at and it's fine it
is kind of fun it's fun just take an
extra minute or two a giant waste of
time though don't get sucked in I'm
already wasted so much time on Twitter
thank you Michael appreciate you and
thanks for having me bye everybody
[Music]